BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Ebonyi State Police Command has declared the governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, Benard Odoh, and nine others wanted over their alleged involvement in the murder of a traditional ruler. The Command in a press statement signed by its Public Relations Officer, Superintendent of Police, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, on Monday named the following people wanted: Prof. Bernard Odoh; Samuel Onyekachi Aligwe; Peter Orogwu (aka one boy); Chukwudi Aliewa (aka Ezza); Chika Ezealigbo; Nnaemeka Egede (aka Champaign); Nnabuike Okohu; Ogobuchi Agbom (aka Okiri); Nonso Obasi and Ikechukwu Nwoba Aka Solid. The PPRO urged the public to avail the police information to apprehend all those declared wanted. The statement said “The Ebonyi State Police Command has declared the under-listed persons wanted in connection with the murder of his Royal Highness Eze Christopher Igboke Ewa of Umu-Ezekoha Community in Ezza North. “The Command urges the good people of Ebonyi State and the general public to assist in apprehending the suspects if seen or call the Command emergency number 07064515001 or the nearest Police station with any useful information that will lead to the arrest of the suspects,” he said. The traditional ruler of Umuezeokaha community in Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Eze Igboke Awa, was shot dead on Monday last week by gunmen. Confirming the incident during a state wide broadcast, the Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, alleged that the killers were people suspected to be political thugs of a particular political party. Umahi said that a number of candidates had been making provocative and inciting statements about the election results in the state. He said: “It has been brought to the attention of the governor of Ebonyi State that just this evening, Monday, February 26, 2023 that the Chairman of Ezza Traditional Rulers Council, His Majesty, Eze Igboke Ewa, was shot dead this night by people suspected to be political thugs for not supporting a particular party. “The governor is aware that a number of candidates have been making provocative and inciting statements about the election results in Ebonyi State.” He further directed security agencies to move into the council area for a rescue mission and arrest the killers immediately. Umahi appealed to all leaders in the state and their candidates who would never accept the result of the election to send their petitions to the Independent National Electoral Commission or to security agencies, rather than making inciting statements that could generate a crisis in the state.