BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Nigeria Police have apprehended three young men for allegedly robbing some residents of their belongings. The suspects are Adeoti Seun, aged 25; Bamitale Rasheed, 25 years, and Adesanmi Saheed, 32. According to a police source, the trio and others said to be at large, invaded people’s homes at midnight, ransacked them and carted away household items and other valuables. The suspects allegedly committed the offence on December 31, 2022 at Akoda-Ede community in Osun State. After investigation, the police dragged the trio to a Chief Magistrate’s Court in Osogbo for offences bordering on armed robbery. The charge read, “That you Adeoti Seun, Bamitale Rasheed and Adesanmi Saheed and others now at large on or about 31st day of December, 2022, at about 3:00am at Akoda-Ede, Osun State, triable in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did conspire among yourselves to commit a felony to wit: Armed Robbery and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 6(b) and punishable under Section 1(1) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act Cap RII Vol 14, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. “That you (the defendants) and others at large on the same date, time and place, did arm yourselves with dangerous weapons and robbed one Oyebamiji, Johnson of one Skyrun Television, one Elepaq generator, two HP laptops, two mobile phones, and one Toyota Matrix car and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act Cap RII Vol. 14 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. “You did arm yourselves with dangerous weapons and robbed one Ogundipe Abdullahi Ayomide of three iPhones, four itel mobile phones, one playstation, jewelries, clothes and cash of N30,000,00, all valued at N773,000,00 and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act Cap RII, Vol 14, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.” Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara ordered that the defendants be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre.