The All Progressives Congress has described as ‘shameful’ the conduct of the Peoples Democratic Party and the Labour Party since the announcement of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as President-elect. APC accused both LP and PDP of seeking to sabotage the electoral process by promoting crises and unrest in the country. Abdullahi Adamu, APC National Chairman, made this known on Thursday, during a press briefing at the party secretariat in Abuja. He said the law of the land has provided a platform to address any grievances adding that, instead of setting the house on fire, they should head to court if they are not satisfied with the conduct of last Saturday’s election. Adamu congratulated the president elect, Tinubu, for defeating his opponents in a free and fair contest, saying that the will of the people had prevailed. He attributed the success to the collaborative efforts of all the APC stakeholders, including the National Working Committee of the party. Adamu also congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for conducting a successful election, adding that he Buhari has delivered on his promise to provide the enabling level playing field for all the political parties and their candidates. “Their protest walk out from the collation centre was childish but clearly a calculated attempt to rubbish the elections and impugn the integrity of the electoral umpire. Their call for the cancellation of the elections over their unproven allegations of electoral fraud must be the height of diabolical desperation. All patriotic citizens of this country who value peace and unity of purpose must rise with one voice to condemn these elements who want to parade themselves in the public space as the guardians of our electoral system. “Aided by some self-appointed guardians of our nation’s conscience, they wanted to turn the victory of our party into ashes in the mouths of all Nigerians and set the country up for global opprobrium. It is condemnable and unpatriotic and unworthy of men who ought to recognise that in a democracy respect for the right of the people to freely choose their leaders through an election is the fundamental pillar of that form of government. “Nothing in our laws and the constitution gives aggrieved individuals and groups the right to abort the unequivocal choices freely made by the people in their wisdom. Power belongs to the people and the people must be allowed to exercise it in the best way they choose in instituting the government of their choice. “Our laws provide channels for the redress of electoral grievances. We urge those who feel aggrieves to avail themselves of those channels to seek redress. To set the house on fire in pursuit of a rat is not an act of courage or patriotism. It stands condemnable. “We are happy to see that the people have seen through their unpatriotic antics and rejected their attempts to set the country on fire. “We commend the highly placed and patriotic former public officers who instantly rose up in defence of the conduct of the elections and the election results and condemned the saboteurs. They have once more risen to the challenge of saving our nation from a needless crisis. We salute them. We must learn to be good losers, not bad losers. It is the hallmark of good citizenship,” the national chairman said.