BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some citizens of Osun State, mostly members of the All Progressives Congress have been celebrating the victory of Bola Tinubu as the Nigerian President-elect. In Iragbiji, the hometown of the immediate past governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola, supporters of APC were jubilating and chanting victory songs. While residents of Iragbiji, Boripe Local Government Area of the state were seen dancing and praising God at the palace of the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdulrosheed Olabomi, a crowd of other APC loyalists were seen celebrating on the major streets of Osogbo, the state capital. Some of them converged at the front of the palace of Ataoja of Osogbo land, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun and celebrating the victory of the President-elect. Atiku had defeated Tinubu in Osun. The Independent National Electoral Commission had declared the presidential candidate of APC, Tinubu, winner of the 2023 presidential election held last Saturday. INEC’s Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu declared Tinubu winner of the election early Wednesday, having satisfied the conditions of the Electoral Act. In the declared result, Tinubu polled 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Peter Obi of the Labour Party. Atiku scored 6,984,520 votes to come second, while Obi came third, garnering 6,101,533 votes to come third. Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) got 1,496,687 votes to come fourth in the presidential election. The APC’s presidential candidate won in 12 States, while Atiku won 12 States, just as Obi won in 11 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Kwankwaso won in one State. Tinubu won in Ogun, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Kogi, Benue, Rivers, Kwara, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno and Niger States. Atiku won in Osun, Kaduna, Gombe, Katsina, Sokoto, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Kebbi, Taraba, Adamawa, Yobe and Obi won in Lagos, Imo, Anambra, Enugu, Abia, Ebonyi, FCT, Delta, Edo, Plateau, Cross River and Nasarawa States. Kwankwaso won only Kano.