BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has berated the administration of Governor Ademola Adeleke for allegedly performing woefully in the last three months of being at helms of affairs in the state. Despite the list of achievements reeled out by the governor since he assumed office on November 27, 2022, the APC described Adeleke’s 100 days as “uneventful, hellish, displeasing, nasty, distasteful, wicked, unsavoury and unpalatable.” Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, at the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Office, Osogbo, the State Acting Chairman, Tajudeen Lawal bemoaned Adeleke’s administration, attributing his administrative woes to a ‘proverbial snake that passes through atop a rock without any significant sign of a passage.’ Lawal claimed that Adeleke has been abysmally managing the meagre resources of the state on frivolities saying what the state had received in the last three months was enough to build sustainable infrastructural development capable of sustaining the state for the next four years. He described Adeleke’s scorecard across sectors of the economy as a monumental failure as being attested to with the issuance of many disputatious, ignoble, obnoxious, unpopular and highly controversial executive orders among which was the one that he used to humiliate three already crowned monarchs by asking them to stay away from their palaces without any justifiable reason. According to him, apart from the regular FAAC totaling N15 billion that the Adeleke’s administration had received, due to the diligent administration of the State by the immediate past Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, the state government had equally received about N11 billion from Siftas; N5 billion from NG CARES and N6.7 billion Federal Government parastatal tax liability respectively in the last three months. Lawal revealed that the Adeleke-led administration had in the last three months received another N3.2 billion for women project; N4.9 billion State Ease of Doing Business Reforms among others, aside from the N14 billion left in the kitty by the Oyetola administration totaling over N60 billion. The Osun State APC Acting Chairman further alleged the Adeleke’s administration of mismanaging and misappropriation of a total sum of N30 billion that accrued to the coffers of 30 Local Government Areas and Ife-East Area Office within the last 100 days of administering the affairs of the state. Lawal who vilified Adeleke for running a dubious administration said the governor had not displayed to the people that he is focused as ‘he has been operating like a bull in the China shop in order to feign seriousness.’ Responding to some of the questions asked by the journalists, the former Commissioner for Works, Remi Omowaiye said Adeleke had proved his incompetence, incapability and lack of political and administrative prowess by his dubious manner of running the affairs of the state in the last three months. Omowaiye who called on the officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to come to the state and beam its searchlight into the alleged financial impropriety being perpetrated by the Adeleke’s administration warned Adeleke to be circumspect and guarded in the way he dips his hand into the public kitty ‘as any fund found out to have been spent by him without due process shall attract statutory sanction on the day of the reckoning which is fast approaching.’ Reacting to the allegations, the People’s Democratic Party in the state, accused APC of “exhibiting ignorance about telemedicine, digital economy and extraordinary performance of Governor Adeleke in the last 100 days,” denying the claim that the state has received N90 billion in the last three months. The Acting State Chairman of the PDP, Adekunle Akindele said, “Governor Adeleke is a man of due process and rule of law who subjected all government’s financial transactions to public financial regulations. He is not like the former government which breached all known procurement rules, circumvented financial regulations and foisted an opaque financial management system on the state. “The state account is open to the public and the public knows without being told that Governor Adeleke is not a thieving governor like those of the past as his focus and attention is on delivery of good governance. Because PDP and its government outperformed the APC and proved that people’s needs can be met, the APC has become disillusioned and cannot even offer believable lies against a Governor whose popularity rating is now knocking 90 percent. “The statement by the State’s APC just confirmed why former Governor Gboyega Oyetola failed woefully as his team are ignorant of the significant advances in the field of digital economy financing through telecom investors, expansion of health care access to the poor through telephone powered telemedicine and innovations in good governance delivery through selfless leadership.”