BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI Officers of the Ebonyi State Police Command have eliminated three gunmen and arrested two others during a gun duel. A press statement on Wednesday evening signed by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, Superintendent of Police, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, explained that the gunmen were apprehended and eliminated following a tipoff on Monday at Ivo local government area of the state while they were allegedly firing sporadically, set ablaze two vehicles and a filling station. According to Onovwakpoyeya, an Assistant Superintendent of Police was shot during the duel while the following exhibits were recovered at the scene of crime: 2 AK-47 rifles, one locally made pistol, some charms and a red Toyota Corolla car, one Fireman generator and one Haier Thermocool fridge. Other recovered exhibits were a Walkie talkie radio set, 30 “AK-47′ live ammunition, 20 expended AK-47 ammunition, 1 AK-47 magazine, one Itel phone, one Android phone, one Police trouser, one Police beret, one Police face cap and some other incriminating items. The Ebonyi State Commissioner of Police, Faleye Sunday Olaleye, therefore warned unknown gunmen to either drop their arms or relocate from the state if they wish to remain alive. He enjoined the people of the state to go about their lawful businesses without fear of intimation as the Police are on top gear in discharging their statutory responsibilities/ duties of protecting lives and properties. “The statement said: ” On the 7th day of March, 2023 at about 2345hrs the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ivo Divisional Headquarters received a distress call that unknown gunmen were firing sporadically and had set ablaze two vehicles and a filling station. “On receipt of the information, the Divisional Police Officer swung into action and left for the scene, while at the scene information revealed that unknown gunmen were sighted sitting down in a public place at Ogwor Community in Ishiagu. “On their way, the men were ambushed and attacked, and an Assistant Superintendent of Police was shot, but the patrol team engaged the hoodlums with superior fire power. During the gun duel, one of the hoodlums was neutralized and others fled with bullet wounds. “The DPO immediately called the Headquarters for reinforcement. The Commissioner of Police, CP Faleye Sunday Olaleye, intercepted the distress call and immediately directed the tactical teams to storm the place with the description of the vehicle and the route through which the hoodlums were escaping. “On sighting the Police operatives the hoodlums engaged them in a gun duel at Osso junction, where two of the hoodlums were equally neutralized and two arrested.”