BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO There was wild jubilation on Friday as indigenes of Obbo-Aiyegunle community in Ekiti Local Government Area of Kwara State celebrated the rehabilitation of 11.1 kilometer road by the Kwara state government.
The state government in November 2022 embarked on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the 11.1kilometer Osi-Obbo Ayegunle-Ekiti state boundary road, which was completed in February this year
.
The people in the community testified that the newly constructed road has improved economic and social values to the area.
The traditional ruler, Owalobbo of Obbo Ayegunle, Oba Samuel Adelodun, said that the road had been in horrible condition for the past 57 years, adding that it recently became an abode of kidnappers to perpetrate evil.
The monarch whose immediate family members were victims of kidnapping last year said that respite came with the intervention of the Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. Owalobbo, who said that the town served as the boundary between Kwara and Ekiti States, stated that “The road had been terrible and remained like that for the past 57 years.
“I recall that about 15 years ago, the former governor of Ekiti state, Engineer Segun Oni tarred the Ekiti State portion of the road to Obbo-Ayegunle while the Kwara portion had been left in horrible condition with the government not showing concern” he lamented. He noted that “despite the community’s involvement in supporting the government of the day to retain its political seat in the past, nothing was gained in return until this project came into being.”
He said that the 11.1 kilometer road, which used to take his people about one hour, now takes them about seven minutes after its rehabilitation Speaking on the economic impact of the road, the Monarch said, “I didn’t know that people have large farms in this area, immediately the road was constricted, I saw people bringing their farm produce for sale on the road while many vehicles going and coming from Abuja now passthrough our community.” Also speaking, the Deputy National President of Obbo-Aiyegunle Descendants Union, Oluranti Idowu, who said that the town needs a tertiary institution also called for upgrading of the traditional ruler to a first class king, among many other needs. “We have other rural roads that can open up abundant agricultural produce, but they are inside. People do farm but to bring them to the city, the main centre, which is the market, is not SO easy, Although I, know the opening up of rural areas has been put in the budget. Development of these roads is important to make us have maximum benefit of the roads” President of Obbo Aiyegunle Students Union, Ojo Matthew, also said that commuters spend more than an hour from Osi to Obbo before the intervention of the governor of the state, “but now, it’s less than seven minutes journey”
“The community is enjoying the road. People travelling to Abuja are passing through Obbo now. You can easily stay here and board a bus to Ilorin without any difficulty. Before now, you had to go to the main road at Osi, a neighbouring community, to board a vehicle. “We thank his Excellency. His second term is assured by God’s grace. We are promising his excellency. We are going to support him. Let me say 99% of our votes will go to APC candidates. I am speaking on behalf of the youth and on behalf of the community” he said.