BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Oyo State chapter of the Labour Party has dumped its governorship candidate, Tawfiq Akinwale, and declared support for Governor Seyi Makinde of the People’s Democratic Party. The party made the announcement at a press conference held at its state headquarters in Ibadan on Sunday ahead of the March 11 governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. Speaking at the event, the party’s chairman in the state, Atayase Sadiq, noted that the decision was made following extensive consultation with members of the party across the state’s 33 local government areas. “The last presidential election was keenly contested by the three major parties in the country and the result of the election as announced by INEC shows that the Labour Party is a force to reckon with. ”The result of the presidential election in Oyo State is similar to that. While the result of the election in its entirety is still a subject of contention, the take-home of the election is that a third force party that emerged barely a year ago has grown to become a strong force because of the quality of its candidate. “Having considered this, in the upcoming election in our dear state, we have decided to support a candidate with the character, competence and capacity to lead and who is also concerned about the wellbeing of the citizens as it is obvious that no party can win the gubernatorial election alone. “However, the main priority should be that the citizens win through the emergence of a candidate that best serves their interest. “Based on this, we have decided to work with the party whose candidate aligns with ours in terms of security, agricultural development and financial wellbeing. And it is obvious that the current administration of Seyi Makinde has done this. “And we hereby call on all citizens of Oyo State to vote for him. This decision was taken with serious consideration for the party’s future in the state,” he explained. He added that the party’s structure in the state remains intact as its House of Assembly candidates across the state are still in the race.