BY MAYOWA SAMUEL A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Ekene Enefe, has claimed that some political parties brought in hackers from Russia and Israel to manipulate the outcome of the 2023 elections. Enefe, who is also in charge of contact mobilisation in the APC Presidential Campaign Council, disclosed this on Friday during an interview on Arise Television monitored by our correspondent. Enefe also noted that political parties, who lost out on the seat of the presidency, had decided to cling on the electronic transmission of results as a basis for kicking against the result of the election, saying they already knew they were losing. He said, “Each party has a situation room, they’ve known the results. They knew they were losing and they wanted to cling onto something; and what they wanted to cling onto was the transmission of the results to the portal. “But people do not know how many times the Independent National Electoral Commission server was hacked and attacked. And this was done by political parties that brought in Russian and Israeli hackers (I’m just giving you an intelligence report that I’m privileged to) to hack into INEC server and to transmit the end result and create chaos. “None of them succeeded and that is why the election, to the best of my knowledge, was not transmitted on INEC server.” Recall that agents of the Peoples Democratic Party, the Labour Party and some other political parties stormed out of the National Collation Centre on Monday during the collation of the presidential election results at the International Conference Centre in Abuja. The aggrieved parties had complained that the results presented by INEC were not uploaded on the commission’s Results Viewing Portal (IReV), as was repeatedly promised by the electoral umpire. They parties and their presidential candidates have since pledged to challenge the result of the election, that produced the APC candidate, Bola Tinubu, as president-elect, in court. As at Friday, INEC had so far uploaded 155,472 results from 176,846 polling units, six days after the presidential poll. A figure that represents 88 per cent of results from all the polling units.