BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The People’s Democratic Party gubernatorial candidate in Kaduna State, Isah Ashiru Kudan has assured that if elected as governor, his government will engage with bandits and kidnappers terrorising the state in dialogue, as they are human beings, and not monsters. Kudan stated this during an interview with ARISE TV on issues concerning his party’s chances ahead of the March 11 governorship and state house of assembly elections. The PDP candidate faulted some of the policies of the incumbent governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, including sacking of some traditional rulers, adding that such decision worsened the security situation in the state. He said, “The truth of the matter is that whether we like it or not, people must be involved in getting us out of these insecurity problems. The issues that are enumerated are those of our inability to take maximum use of our vast lands. We have vast lands that are ungoverned. “In the past, we had traditional rulers that were managing these vast lands but these rulers are no more now. When we come onboard, I assure you that we’ll ensure the right things are done by bringing these people back. “Second, the issue of funding as far as the security issue is concerned in the state has been very poor. We have made contacts with those that are in the security apparatus within the state and they said they’ve not had enough as far as the issue of funding is concerned. We will make sure that we do the right things as far as the issue of funding is concerned.” Kudan further stated that if he became the governor of the state, he would negotiate with bandits to ensure a long-lasting solution to the state’s security menace. “We have to engage these people involved in banditry and kidnapping. They are people living among us. People are thinking that they are monsters, they are not. We can sit with them, discuss, and bring this menace to an end. “The problem in Kaduna is disturbing. Come to Kaduna and see. People are not sleeping with their eyes closed. If we really want to get this (banditry) out of our society, there has to be an engagement with these people to make sure that whatever is their problem is addressed,” he said.