BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, has rendered his stewardship account and reeled out some achievements his administration has made since he was sworn-in on November 27, 2022. While addressing the people of the state on the 100 days anniversary of his government, Adeleke said he has been delivering on his electoral promises notwithstanding paucity of funds. He thanked the residents for their full support on July 16, 2022 and on February 25, 2023 where all National Assembly candidates of the PDP in the state were voted. Governor Adeleke also called on the people to endorse the PDP again this Saturday to enable him to continue delivering dividends of democracy. He said, “My good people of Osun State, I address you today to express my heartfelt appreciation for your love and backing for me all the time. You voted for me massively last year. I am ever grateful. You voted for my party massively in federal elections. I am thankful. Your trust in me is not taken for granted. Since I assumed office, I have been delivering on my electoral promises despite the funding constraints.” Listing his achievements in the last 100 days in office, Adeleke said, “I have blocked leakages in state finance; launched Osun on tech revolution through new tech innovation policy, ICT Policy and domestication of Nigeria Start Up act; stabilized the then heavily politicized public service; introduced farmers intervention initiative; launched the payment of a log of half salaries and several staff emoluments issues; commenced payment of arrears of contributory pensions; approved almost a billion naira for Osun rural project development; implemented mass water projects across 332 wards; launched rehabilitation of schools/health centres; restarted the reconstruction of Osogbo -Kwaran- Kwara border road; launched mass road reconstruction across Osun State; restored sanity to traditional institutions; renovated Abere Bola Ige house from its decrepit conditions; started action on abandoned Osun House in Abuja. “I have also launched an action on the implementation of the Light up Osun project; started preparatory work for the making and implementation time of the Osun Climate Change Policy and strategy; introduced the Imole Youth Corps with new age tasks; launched the implementation of the Osun state Tourism policy plan; implemented and expand Imole medical surgery initiative across nine federal constituencies; shaken up the solid mineral sector for accountability; maintained executive/legislative unity despite party differences; take action to access the novel tax credit for infrastructures initiative for Osun state. “To expand broadband services, my administration is reviving and flagging off the Osun bribed fibre optic project. Already, we are reforming the state’s Transport Management System while expanding the infrastructure base of the Osun State University. Our administration has done a lot and we are planning to do more.” At the forthcoming poll, the governor told the people of the state that, “for me to continue to serve you well, I request that you vote for the 26 House of Assembly candidates of the PDP. They are the team I will work with. They are very important for the implementation of the Imole agenda. A PDP fully controlled State Assembly is the key to more dividends of democracy. “Next Saturday’s election is very critical for Osun State. A vote for those Assembly candidates is a vote for me. I need them to serve you better and to complete the work we have started. Another victory for me and my party, the PDP, will speed up the progress already recorded and drive our state to greater heights. “I however appeal for a violence-free election, election is not about killing and maiming. It is about the exercise of electoral choice. Mobilise peacefully and cast your votes for PDP candidates”, he noted.