Thousands of transporters from various unions on Wednesday held a solidarity rally in Ilorin to drum up support for the re-election bid of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. The transporters stormed various parts of the capital city before arriving at Government House where they reassured the Governor of their total support for his comeback bid in the March 18, 2023 ballot. Deputy President of Nigeria Labour Congress and former National President of NURTW, Najeem Yasin, who led thousands of transporters on the solidarity rally, said the unions would also back other candidates of the ruling party to ensure that AbdulRazaq has all the backing he requires to run a smooth government. “We are here today to express our support for your second term bid. We have agreed to all work for the success of APC in Saturday’s governorship and house of assembly elections. “We are happy that Kwara APC recorded 100% success in the previous elections. We are determined to record the same feat in the governorship and House of Assembly elections. It is important that we all work for the success of all the APC candidates for the smooth running of government.” At the rally were the Kwara Chairman of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria, AbdulRahman Olayinka Onikijipa; his National Union of Road Transport Workers counterpart AbdulRazaq Ariwoola; Chairman, Tricycle Owners Association of Nigeria, Saliu Gidado; Chairman, Okada Riders Association of Nigeria, Gabriel Ajewole; among other leaders of the unions. They appreciated the Governor for the upliftment of members of the unions through various empowerment platforms, and assured him of massive votes in the election. They described the re-election bid of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq as a done deal, God willing, in view of the developmental drives of his administration across the nooks and crannies of the state. Governor AbdulRazaq, for his part, appreciated members of the transport unions for their support, resilience, and active participation in the presidential and National Assembly elections, which led to the victory of APC. “Let me appreciate you for the last elections. Through your work and the efforts of other stakeholders, APC won the last elections in Kwara State. Out of all the states, Kwara scored 100% and we are number one in Nigeria. We thank you. “There was a prediction that any party that won Kwara State would win the presidency, and we made it come to pass. I want to thank you for the massive votes for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and APC other candidates in February 25 elections despite fuel and cash scarcity in the country. I want to assure you that with the closeness of Alhaji Najeem Yasin, you will be rewarded for your support. “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is aware of various challenges confronting the nation, including in the transport sector. He will sit down with your leadership and solve them. He will surmount all challenges going forward. Let’s be hopeful that we will resolve them one by one. “Let us continue to canvas for votes and come out on Saturday to vote massively for the APC,” the Governor said.