Ahead of the forthcoming governorship and state assembly elections in Oyo State, a former governor of the state, Rasheed Ladoja, has endorsed the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress Teslim Folarin. Ladoja made the endorsement public at a meeting with some of his loyalists on Saturday. Ladoja noted that the People’s Democratic Party lost in the just concluded National Assembly elections in Oyo State owing to the personality of the state governor. “And this is not about the history of Oyo State, but also about the history of the person in power. We saw an example of this in Osun State. “Osun State governor, Ademola Adeleke, has only been in power for three months, yet he was able to clear all the House of Representatives and Senatorial seats for candidates of the People’s Democratic Party during the just concluded National Assembly election. “And then, we have to know that Osun State is in a peculiar position because it is the root of Bola Tinubu, the president-elect. After Oyo state governor, Seyi Makinde, picked the PDP House of Representatives and senatorial candidates to represent the state at the National Assembly, he didn’t offer any form of support to them. “He didn’t spend money to support them or gave out a word to the citizens for any single one of them. Even God detests actions that are unfair and unjust. “So when Saturday, March 18 comes, please, leave all you’re doing and go out to cast your votes for Teslim Folarin, the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state.” He also announced the defection of Adebisi Olopoeniyan; a grassroots politician and erstwhile pillar of the Oyo PDP to the camp of APC. He added that the New Nigeria People’s Party and Social Democratic Party chapters of Oyo State have adopted Teslim Folarin as their preferred governorship candidate. He concluded by appealing to all his loyalists to cast their vote for Folarin and also pleaded for forgiveness from anyone who might be aggrieved with him (Folarin). “Please, I’m appealing to my loyalists to cast their votes for Folarin in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. In addition, I want everyone to forgive him for whatever he might have done in the past,” Ladoja added. The Point recalls that a few days ago, the political dynasty of the former governor, Ladoja Idera De Leaders and Stakeholders, had declared support for Folarin’s gubernatorial ambition.