BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria has urged the people to bring true change to the land by voting committed leaders that are capable of changing the narrative by crushing insecurity, corruption, injustice, selfishness and nepotism that have become systemic and endemic in the nation. The Christian body spoke in a new year message titled, ‘Embrace the future with courage,’ signed by its
President, Bishop Francis Wale Oke, and made available to The Point on Sunday, January 1. Oke doubles as the presiding Bishop of Sword of the Spirit Ministries and Founder of the Precious Cornerstone University, Ibadan. The statement, which advised the electorate neither to be brainwashed nor hoodwinked to trade their future by taking pittance, read that the Christians would not stop in praying for the nation. “Greetings to all Nigerians in the precious name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Welcome to Year 2023. On behalf of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and millions of pentecostals all over Nigeria, we declare that year 2023 shall be one of peace, progress and turn-around for good and the fulfillment of God’s promise over Nigeria. “This is a season of joy but it is also a time that calls for sober reflection. Nigerians are in great pains. Nigeria is under severe and unbearable pressure like never before. “Those who seek to be voted for should, therefore, seek above all things, to ease the pains of Nigerians, to stop the painful but unavoidable drift abroad of the best of our brains, to make Nigeria safe for all, to make Nigeria a comfortable home with adequate, reliable means of livelihood for the masses, not a space where pittance of paltry salary increase are being touted. “We urge these prospective leaders to create an environment where every Nigerian can thrive and prosper without recourse to dubious and evil acts. They should be decisive and ruthless in crushing insecurity, corruption, injustice,selfishness and nepotism that have become systemic and endemic eating the fabrics of our nation. “We urge you not to just seek power, but seek to rebuild a terribly battered, brutalized and polarised nation that Nigeria has become today. Our economy should be completely overhauled, not by foreign institutions who only seek to milk us to build their own economies; not by merely changing the colours of the naira but by pushing up its value greatly among the currencies of the world. “The extremely rich and diverse resources that God has mercifully bestowed on us as a nation should be properly harnessed, managed and distributed evenly to flow from the top to the grassroot, not just allowed to be stolen and trapped with the opulent small percent at the top, doling mere pittance down to the populace. “Our Constitution needs to be replaced with a people-oriented one that will facilitate the restructuring of our nation in a way that will make speedy development of the geopolitical zones possible,not just the cosmetic amendments that will bring no change to our nation.
We must continue to uphold our nation, Nigeria in prayers. We must continue to commit Nigeria into God’s hands to ensure there is peace and tranquility in the land. “We will continue to pray that the elections will be free and fair and that it will usher in the much desired change for the good of the country. “Nigeria cannot continue like this. Nigeria needs a true change. But beyond that, we must embrace the future with courage. We must be bold and wise in our choices in the 2023 election. Let everyone use his or her vote to bring a true change to Nigeria by voting only those who will courageously bring the change that Nigeria needs. God bless Nigeria!” Nigerians are passing through severe pains, politicians seeking positions must address problems AKINWALE ABOLUWADE The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria has urged the people to bring true change to the land by voting committed leaders that are capable of changing the narrative by crushing insecurity, corruption, injustice, selfishness and nepotism that have become systemic and endemic in the nation. The Christian body spoke in a new year message titled, ‘Embrace the future with courage,’ signed by its
President, Bishop Francis Wale Oke, and made available to The Point on Sunday, January 1. The statement, which advised the electorate neither to be brainwashed nor hoodwinked to trade their future by taking pittance, read that the Christians would not stop in praying for the nation. “Greetings to all Nigerians in the precious name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Welcome to Year 2023. On behalf of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and millions of pentecostals all over Nigeria, we declare that year 2023 shall be one of peace, progress and turn-around for good and the fulfillment of God’s promise over Nigeria. “This is a season of joy but it is also a time that calls for sober reflection. Nigerians are in great pains. Nigeria is under severe and unbearable pressure like never before. “Those who seek to be voted for should, therefore, seek above all things, to ease the pains of Nigerians, to stop the painful but unavoidable drift abroad of the best of our brains, to make Nigeria safe for all, to make Nigeria a comfortable home with adequate, reliable means of livelihood for the masses, not a space where pittance of paltry salary increase are being touted. “We urge these prospective leaders to create an environment where every Nigerian can thrive and prosper without recourse to dubious and evil acts. They should be decisive and ruthless in crushing insecurity, corruption, injustice,selfishness and nepotism that have become systemic and endemic eating the fabrics of our nation. “We urge you not to just seek power, but seek to rebuild a terribly battered, brutalized and polarised nation that Nigeria has become today. Our economy should be completely overhauled, not by foreign institutions who only seek to milk us to build their own economies; not by merely changing the colours of the naira but by pushing up its value greatly among the currencies of the world. “The extremely rich and diverse resources that God has mercifully bestowed on us as a nation should be properly harnessed, managed and distributed evenly to flow from the top to the grassroot, not just allowed to be stolen and trapped with the opulent small percent at the top, doling mere pittance down to the populace. “Our Constitution needs to be replaced with a people-oriented one that will facilitate the restructuring of our nation in a way that will make speedy development of the geopolitical zones possible,not just the cosmetic amendments that will bring no change to our nation.
We must continue to uphold our nation, Nigeria in prayers. We must continue to commit Nigeria into God’s hands to ensure there is peace and tranquility in the land. “We will continue to pray that the elections will be free and fair and that it will usher in the much desired change for the good of the country. “Nigeria cannot continue like this. Nigeria needs a true change. But beyond that, we must embrace the future with courage. We must be bold and wise in our choices in the 2023 election. Let everyone use his or her vote to bring a true change to Nigeria by voting only those who will courageously bring the change that Nigeria needs. God bless Nigeria!”