MAYOWA SAMUEL A member of the Presidential Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress, Omogbolahan Babawale has faulted the appointment of the former Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase while still being a card- carrying member of the People’s Democratic Party. Disclosing this in a petition addressed to Abdulahi Adamu, the APC National chairman, Omogbolahan, the Convener, The Think-Tinubu Initiative (3TI), recalled that Arase was the chairman of the security sub-committee  for the PDP Convention that took place in 2021. Wondering why President Muhammadu Buhari couldn’t find a non-partisan retired officer to nominate for the position, rather than a ‘PDP bigwig’, he berated  the speed at which the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan approved Arase’s appointment for the position while demanding an explanation for the move. Omogbolahan’s petition titled, “There May Be Fire On The Mountain, Let Every ‘Leg’ Run” read in part, “The former Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase has just been appointed Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC). Perhaps, the leadership of both Senate and The Presidency may not be aware that former IGP Solomon Arase is a card-carrying member of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). As a matter of fact, he was the Chairman, Security Sub-Committee of the PDP Convention held on October 30 and 31, 2021. Today, he is the new Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC) under an APC government. The PSC is the only agency constitutionally with the responsibility of transferring service police officers, the Commissioners of Police. “Arase is from Agenebode area of Edo State, the same village the Chairman, Atiku Technical Committee for the 2023 election and owner of AIT/RayPower, High Chief Raymond Aleogho Dokpesi hails from. The Presidency did not see any non-partisan retired police officer, if not anyone with soft spot for the APC to appoint except a known PDP bigwig. I thought President Muhammadu Buhari said he wanted to leave a lasting legacy on electoral process. Is it by appointing a PDP diehard this can be achieved? Fingers crossed! “I am not insinuating anything o, but why the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan hurriedly ‘endorsed’ the appointment of Arase in less than 48 hours, a known PDP member leaves much to be desired. I may be wrong but I challenge the leadership to provide any cogent apologia for this.” According to him, the development was coming at a time when rumours of an alleged plot to scuttle the ambition of the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima was getting rife, as he hoped there wasn’t an internal sabotage playing out. “There’s no doubt of the fact that transferring police commissioners during election period is idiosyncratic of the Police Service Commission (PSC). However, the question is, ‘Why only Lagos and Ogun States?’ Oh, they are still rolling out others? Is it not flabbergasting, rather discombobulating this whole thing is happening at the same time there are insinuations there were possible plot of internal sabotage against the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima? “Let’s hope there is nothing (internal sabotage) of such as we move into the last lap of the elections. I want to sincerely believe the relevant stakeholders within our party hierarchy is watching the game as it is playing out already. Let’s remember that it will be foolhardy and a complete tommyrot to cry over a spilt milk. “I hope we all ‘sojí’ (wake up), like the colloquial slang on the streets and act too quickly too,” he added further.