BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A middled-aged woman identified as Mrs. Olayinka Tosin Kayode and her child have been reportedly kidnapped by unknown gunmen in Osun State. However, the kidnappers were said to have reached out to the family of the victims and demanded for a N5 million ransom. The victims were said to have been abducted around 6pm around Otaefun/Kobongboe area in Osogbo on Tuesday, while returning home from her shop situated around the same axis. Union Baptist Church, Osogbo has disclosed that the kidnap vitctims are members of the religious centre and solicited for prayers from members of the public for their safe release. According to a statement released by the Public Relations Officer of the Church located at Odi-Olowo in the state capital, Oluwamayowa Fagbohungbe, Mrs. Kayode is one of the teachers in the Teenagers’ Ministry of the Church. Sources said the gunmen have reached out to the husband of the victim and demanded for the sum of N5 million as ransom. According to sources, the kidnappers requested that the ransom should be transferred to them through the bank account of the victim in their custody. The Senior Pastor of Union Baptist Church, Sunday Adediwura Adeoye who announced the sad development to the members of the Church called for prayers for their quick release. Adeoye said, “we solicit for the continued prayers and supports of all and sundry while we believe in God Almighty that Mrs. Olayinka Tosin Kayode and her child will regain their freedom and be reunited with their family and the Church of God soon.” The abduction came few days after kidnappers of Isoke residents of the state along Iwo area demanded dollar for the release of the two remaining victims in their den. The Police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in the state confirmed the kidnapping, saying that rescue efforts were on course. “NSCDC is working round the clock to make sure the victims are rescued, the command is combing all the nooks and crannies of d state and we believe that in no time the victims shall regain their freedom and the perpetrators shall be smoked out no matter how far they run or where there they hide, we shall get them,” the Acting Public Relations Officer of the Corps, Kehinde Adeleke said.