The Chairman of the National Peace Accords Committee, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, has warned that Nigerians are highly disturbed that the forthcoming general elections may be marred by violence. He gave the warning on Wednesday when eight gubernatorial candidates signed the historic Peace Accords for the conduct of the 2023 elections in Kano. The signing of the peace accords by the Kano candidates was organized by the state wing of the committee. Abubakar, represented by the Head of the Secretariat, Peace Accords Committee, Reverend Father Attah Barkindo, said there was palpable fear amongst citizens which should be doused by the relevant agencies. “Nigerians are worried that elections will be inconclusive and violent, this makes it mandatory for INEC and other security agencies to sit up to ensure that the right things are done,” he warned. General Abubakar said the act of attacking campaign convoys is another serious security problem that is brewing and should be stopped. The Chairman of the Peace Accords Committee urged candidates to accept the outcome of the elections as a way of making Kano great and peaceful. The Special Representative of the United Nations for West Africa, Giovanni Biha, urged candidates to openly and actively denounce violence, saying that doing so will in no small measure curtail every uncertainty. Biha commended the candidates for agreeing to sign the Peace Accord, explaining that the agreement in itself is a move towards ensuring peace in Kano. Secretary to the Independent Electoral Commission in Kano, Garba Lawal Muhammad said the Commission had already addressed issues with late arrivals of elections materials and other serious issues. He said the essence of the peace accords is to commit actors to do what is right. This is because according to him, in the 2015 election, not less than 58 people were killed. Meanwhile, the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has revealed that he was ready to step down his 2023 presidential ambition if there is a better candidate contesting the 2023 presidential election. The NNPP flag bearer said this while reeling out his political credentials at the Chatham House in London on Wednesday. The Chatham House is the British Royal Institute of International Affairs. Kwankwaso promised to revamp the economy and create a conducive environment for businesses to thrive and attract more foreign investment if elected. He also vowed to deal with poverty and poor education in the north if elected. He said, “I built over 500 classrooms while I was governor of Kano State, and when elected I will bring more people on board to tackle education needs in Nigeria.” On insecurity, Kwankwaso recalled his time as Defense Minister and Special Adviser to the president of Somalia and promised to recruit more into the Nigeria armed forces. Kwankwaso is contesting to be president with the likes of Bola Tinubu, whose party is the ruling party in Nigeria and enjoys wide support from the western part of Nigeria. Peter Obi, also a major contender, whose profile has recently shot up continues to enjoy massive support from the Nigerian youths. Atiku Abubakar, a former Vice President, is the flag bearer and he is expected to give Kwankwaso a run for his money in the northern region of Nigeria where most votes are expected to be cast in the coming general election. In the meantime, Kwankwaso also revealed that he was interested in working with the Labour Party regarding the 2023 presidential election. He however added that they couldn’t reach a compromise on how to achieve an alliance. The former Kano State Governor explained that the Labour Party was at the peak of its media hype at that time so it was difficult for both parties to reach a compromise. He added that the NNPP has a wide appeal and commands national support. He said: “On Labour Party, I was initially interested in working with them, but at that time, they were at the peak of the media hype and we couldn’t reach a compromise. Our party (NNPP) is a national party, and we’re commanding the support of the masses.”