BY TIMOTHY AGBOR A man identified as Uwakwe Ugwuanyi, has been banished for life from Umuela village, Ibagwa-Aka community in Igbo-Eze South Local Government Area of Enugu State after he was accused of being responsible for many deaths in his family. The villagers mobilised themselves, sang mourning songs, carried palm fronds as well as a mock coffin to the doorstep of Ugwuanyi on Tuesday and ordered him to leave the community. They alleged that within the last two years, no fewer than five youths, who were his brother’s children, had died in his family. A source in the village said when people died in the family, Ugwuanyi would volunteer to go to the diviners for fact-finding. The source said Ugwuanyi would always inform the villagers that his late elder brother was responsible for the deaths. But, things seemed to have gotten out of hand when another youth died in the family during the last yuletide season. The development forced the youths of the village to go to another diviner to know the cause of the deaths. A family member, who preferred anonymity said, “our brothers and sisters have been dying for a long time now. Anytime you want to go and search for what is happening to our family, Mr. Ugwuanyi will say he will do that for us. “When he comes back from the search, he will tell you that his late brother, who is his elder brother, is responsible for the death of the children; that his late elder brother had a problem with the gods; that the gods are the ones responsible for taking the life of the children. “But the last one happened and the youths are very angry about his death. We decided to go and look for a solution together, which we did. We went to many places in search of a solution and the picture of the man kept on popping up that our uncle is responsible for all the deaths that have been happening in Umuela village in the Ibagwa-Aka community,” “So, when we brought home what we saw, the entire village took a decision that he be banished from our community.”