BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 48-year-old-woman, Kafayat Akeem, has been dragged before a Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State for allegedly assaulting a police officer, Inspector Comfort Ibitoye, in the course of duty. Akeem was said to have injured Ibitoye by punching her on the neck during a disagreement that ensued at the Anti-Cultism Unit of the Osun State Police Command in Osogbo. The Point gathered that the defendant visited the police unit at the Housing Estate area of Osogbo to see her husband who was arrested alongside others over allegations of abduction of a victim. Her husband was arrested for allegedly conspiring with others to abduct a man simply identified as Apara with a view to forcing him to sign a land document. It was learnt that an altercation erupted at the entrance of the station over the place where the woman passed during her visit to the station on January 4. A senior officer had reportedly ordered the defendant to pass through another route but she discountenanced the order. It resulted in a rowdy session between the woman and the female police officer. The visitor was said to have assaulted Ibitoye by punching her and tearing up her uniform. The charge against her read that “Kafayat Akeem, on January 4, 2023 at about 10am, at Housing Estate area Osogbo, Osun State, in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did unlawfully assault one Inspector Ibitoye Comfort and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 356 of the Criminal Code, Cap 3, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “You, Kafayat Akeem, on the same date, time, place and in the aforementioned Magisterial District, did unlawfully assault one Inspector Ibitoye Comfort by punching her, inflicting some injuries on her neck and tore her cloth and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “You did unlawfully assault one Inspector Ibitoye Comfort and obstruct her from performing her lawful duties and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 356 (II) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “On the same date, time, place and in the aforementioned Magisterial District, you did conduct yourself in a manner likely to cause breach of public peace in Osogbo and its environs to fear and/or panic and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 249 (d) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun state of Nigeria, 2002.” The accused person pleaded not guilty to the allegations. The defence counsel, Najite Okobe, urged the court to grant the woman bail in liberal terms. Police prosecutor, John Idoko, asked the court to use its discretion in granting bail. Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara granted the defendant bail in the sum of N50, 000 with one surety in the same amount and adjourned the case till January 9 for mention.