BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Independent National Electoral Commission has returned Chukwuma Ifeanyi Odii as the governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party for the March 11 2023 general election in Ebonyi State. This is contained in the third amendment released, signed by the INEC Commission Secretary, Rose Oriaran-Anthony on Monday. According to Anthony, the Commission in an explanatory statement accompanying the list said the third amendment became necessary due to various court orders it was served and death, correction of errors made by political parties. This came after the commission on December 22, 2022, delisted Odii and his deputy candidate alongside the National Assembly candidates except for the candidate for Ezza North/Ishielu federal constituency, Emmanuel Nwite, whose name appeared through a court order. But the INEC in the third amendment also listed one Irem Ibom Oka, a former House of Representatives member as the candidate of the PDP for the Afikpo North/South Federal constituency. The name of the present occupant of the seat, Idu Igariwey, was listed as the candidate of the party in the original list released on September 20, 2022. Irem Ibom, a founding member of PDP and former House of Representatives member and Tony Ekoh were laying claims to the House of Representatives ticket for this year’s general election. Last week, the court ruled in Tony Ekoh’s favour. INEC also named Linus Okorie, a former member of the House of Representatives as the Senatorial candidate of the Labour Party for Ebonyi South zone as well as the member Representing Ezza North/Ishielu Constituency, Anayo Edwin as the All Progressives Grand Alliance candidate for the constituency in place of Joseph Nwobashi who was listed in amendment number one as the party’s candidate for the constituency. The statement reads: “The Commission published the final list of candidates for Presidential, Senatorial and House of Representatives elections on 20th September 2022 and Governorship and State House of Assembly Elections on 4th October 2022 by the provisions of Section 32 of the Electoral Act, 2022 and the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Elections. “After the said publication, the Commission was served Orders of Court in respect of the nomination of candidates for Governorship, Senatorial, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly Elections. “It is worthy of note that the list of candidates was amended in Amendment Nos. 1 & 2 published on the Commission’s website on 10th November and 22nd December 2022, under Court Orders and Deaths. “By the provision of Section 287 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), the Commission is bound to enforce the Orders of Court on the Nomination of candidates by Political Parties in the affected Constituencies. “Whereas the Commission published the details of Candidates as submitted by political parties on the INEC Candidates Nomination Portal (ICNP), some political parties forwarded complaints seeking correction of an error made in the details of their candidates. “Consequent upon the above, the lists of candidates in respect of the attached Senatorial Districts and Federal Constituencies, Governorship and State House of Assembly elections are amended and published as Amendment No. 3 under the Orders of Court served on the Commission as at 30th January 2023, Deaths and requests for the correction of candidates’ details by political parties,” the statement said.