Gunmen have abducted Joshua Ahmadu, the District Head of Chawai in Kauru Local Government of Kaduna State. Ahmadu’s abduction was confirmed on Wednesday by Abel Adamu, President, Chawai Development Association. Adamu, in a statement signed by Raphael Joshua, Public Relations Officer of CDA, said that the traditional ruler was kidnapped Tuesday night “by unknown gunmen who invaded his house at Zambina”. “It was reported that the kidnappers stormed the house of the traditional ruler in their numbers around 9:30 p.m. and took him away,” Adamu was quoted as saying. The CDA President was further quoted as expressing dismay over the situation while assuring residents that CDA was working hard to ensure that the victim was released unhurt. “Already, relevant authorities and heads of security operatives on special duty in the chiefdom have been duly informed and have already swung into action to rescue the traditional ruler. “We are calling on all sons and daughters of Tsam land to pray for the safe return of the district head.” The statement challenged youths of the chiefdom to always take communal security seriously so as to avert such breaches. “We have to be on our feet to ensure the land is safe. “It’s unfortunate that at this critical time, the youths, who ought to be the communal force to guarantee security across communities, are not ready to work in collaboration with security personnel to secure the land,” he lamented. The Tsam Chiefdom has suffered lots of abductions and attacks by bandits and kidnappers lately. Some of the incidences have led to the loss of lives while large sums had also been paid to rescue kidnapped victims. The CDA boss appealed to government to direct security agencies to ensure that the district head was rescued and released “unconditionally”. The personnel of the Police Area Command in Kafanchan had since visited the family of the victim and assured relations of its readiness to “do everything possible” to rescue the traditional ruler. (NAN)