BY DAVID OKONKWO, ABAKALIKI An operative of Ebubeagu Security outfit, one Ajasm Aja, has been allegedly shot dead by his colleague over N1000, in Ebonyi State. It was gathered that the late Aja and his trigger-happy colleague were part of the Ebubeagu team drafted to Isu community in Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, to provide security at the All Progressives Congress governorship rally held in the area, on Saturday. It was gathered that after the really, the team was directed to bring and secure the party’s flags for subsequent rallies, when an altercation reportedly ensued between the deceased and his trigger-happy colleague over an amount of money, which each was to get only N1000. As the altercation raged, it was said that Aja rushed for his Pump Action riffle for an aim; but his opponent swiftly pulled his own riffle, shot him in the head and, he died on the spot. A community source privy to the incident who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said: “Today, Saturday 28th January 2023, the APC had their rally at Isu, the council headquarters of Onicha LGA. “At the close of the event, the Ebubeagu members and G-24 group members loyal to the Onicha LGA Chairman – Mr. Chidiebere Uzor (aka Obosi-Aku), were asked to collect back the Party’s flag in readiness for other day’s event. “In the process of doing so, one of the Ebubeagu members and leader in the G-24 group, popularly known as Ajasm Aja, who was recently sworn-in as Supervisory Councilor for Health in the Onicha council area, was engulfed in strong altercation with a co- member. “As the duo engaged in war of words, Mr. Aja pulled his Pump-Action rifle and aimed to shoot at the other colleague. In swift response, the colleague was quicker in action, pulled a pistol and shot him on the forehead. “He fell flat immediately and died on the spot. “This event is coming few hours after the noble Elders of Onicha-Igboeze called ‘”Umunwanyi Oji-Ofo”, laid a curse on anyone who would engage in any activities targeted at instigating violence in Onicha-Igboeze or at killing a fellow brother or sister. “Many, after hearing the news of the incidence leading to the sudden demise of Mr. Aja believed that he had fallen to the curse of the Umunwanyi Oji-Ofo since he’s known as one of the terror figures in the community.” Reacting, the Ebubeagu Commander in Ebonyi State, Friday Nnana-Ujor, on Monday, said the attacker wasn’t an operative of the Ebubeagu South East security outfit, revealing the assailant was a suspected gunman. He said, “No, it was not an Ebubeagu person that shot him. “That thing was stage-managed; it was people that parked behind a Sienna bus that killed him. The person that did that was sent to do so. People are thinking that it was Ebubeagu personnel that killed the person, but it is not true. “It’s because the gun they used in killing the person was a Pump Action. No Ebubeagu person goes to the rally ground with arms. We had a meeting and made that decision. We are currently investigating the matter and very soon we will arrest the culprit and call journalists to hear from him. I don’t want people to think that it’s politics. Just exercise some patience.”