Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum on Sunday graced Bura cultural day in the Marama community of Hawul Local Government, in the southern part of Borno. Began in 2002, sons and daughters of the large Babur-Bura ethnic group, led by the Emir of Biu, converge in Marama town annually on the 1st of January, for the cultural day. On January 1st 2020, Governor Zulum attended that year’s edition of the festival, before commissioning some developmental projects in Hawul Local Government Area. This year’s (2023) cultural day, which held at the premises of Government Secondary School, Marama was organized by a community-based organization, known as “Marama Community Development Association.” Governor Zulum commended the organizers for choice of focus. “I am happy to inform this gathering that today’s theme, tagged “Effects of Alien Civilization on Bura Culture” is very apt. I therefore, commend the organizers of this occasion.” “It is my honour to be here for the second time, to rejoice with Babur-Bura on this very important day,” Zulum said. Zulum, while giving assurance of his continued support also charged the community to maintain their cultural heritage. “The government of Borno State will continue to provide support to the Marama Development Association” Zulum said. He added, “It is very important for all of us to maintain our cultures, we should not allow our culture to be washed away by modernization. When you look at the cultural performances displayed here, it is so pleasing to all of us.” Grand patron of the Marama Community Development Association and the Emir of Biu, Alh. Dr Mai Mustapha Umar Mustapha II, commended the Governor for the numerous developmental projects in Bura land. The monarch also applauded Governor Zulum for his effort in the restoration of peace across Borno State. In their separate remarks, the Chairman of the occasion, Senator Ahmed Isa Hassan Barta and the Chairman of Marama Community Development Association, Mr Samuel S. Bwala expressed appreciation to the Governor for attending the Bura Cultural Day personally. Chairman of Hawul, Mr Inuwa Bwala conducted Zulum and his his delegation around cultural items on display. Five sons of Bura land were honoured with awards of excellence, during the event. They included former chief of army staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, Chairman of house of representatives committee on appropriation, Muktari Aliyu Betara, Engr. Alex H. Mahelia, Prof. Samson Duna and Engr. Barka Joda Sajou, while Engr. Hyelampa Ngadda was honoured posthumously. The occasion was attended by the Deputy Governor, Umar Usman Kadafur, Senator representing Borno south, Mohammed Ali Ndume, state APC Chairman Ali Bukar Dalori, members of the House of Representatives, Haruna Mshelia and Ahmed Usman Jaha, former deputy Governors, members of the state assembly, government officials and politicians. Others included the Emir of Biu, Alh. Dr Mai Mustapha Umar Mustapha II, Emir of Shani, Alh. Mohammad Nasir Mailafiya, Emir or Shelleng, Alh. Dr Abdullahi Isa Dasong, while the Emir of Guyuk was ably represented.