No fewer than seven persons were confirmed dead on Sunday in a New Year tragedy while 16 others sustained injuries in an accident involving a Toyota Hiace bus and Mack tanker few meters to Gofamint on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Ahmed Umar, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Ogun State confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta. Umar said that the accident occurred at 4:10pm and was caused by excessive speed on the part of the bus driver who lost control and rammed into the tanker from behind. He added that 25 people were involved which comprised of 17 male adults and eight female adults. “A total of 16 persons sustained varying degrees of injuries (10 male adults and six female adults) while seven persons were recorded dead from the crash (six male adults and one female adults), and two others were unhurt. “Two vehicles were involved with registration numbers AKD 693 XW a Toyota Haice bus and GZA 215 XA a Mack tanker,” he said. The FRSC boss explained that the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere for medical attention while the deceased were deposited at FOS Morgue, Ipara. The sector commander advised motorists to shun speed, saying it kills faster than anything. He also cautioned against driving while tired, saying “it is as dangerous as drunk driving”. Umar called on drivers to always rest for 15 to 30 minutes after four hours journey. The FRSC boss sympathised with the family of the victims and advised them to contact FRSC Ogunmakin office for more information about the crash. Also, one person was confirmed dead while six others sustained injuries in an accident involving a Toyota Sienna and a Toyota RAV4 near Remo Majestic Hotel , Sagamu on the Sagamu-Benin expressway. Babatunde Akinbiyi, the Spokesman, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps in Ogun confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta on Sunday. Akinbiyi explained that the incident occured at 9:20am, saying that the accident was caused by tyre burst on the part of the sienna vehicle marked EL 839 FST. He noted that seven people were involved in the accident. According to an eyewitness, the Sienna car was moving along side the Rav 4 vehicle when one of the tyres of the Sienna vehicle bursted. “It fell over the Rav 4 vehicle marked 6172 DLA resulting in the death of one of the occupants of the Sienna vehicle while six other passengers in both vehicles were injured,” he said. He urged drivers to shun speeding and the use of bad and second hand tyres.