Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that his emergence as Forbes Best of Africa Governor in the Industrial Revolution, would spur him and his administration to continue to implement policies, programmes and reforms capable of making Ogun the best governed state in Nigeria. Governor Abiodun had on Friday night won the prestigious Forbes Award as the Best of Africa Governor in the Industrial Revolution for the year 2022, in Abuja. The governor, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Saturday, declared that the award was an elixir for him to do more in terms of the delivery of good governance to the people of Ogun State. He noted that he felt honoured and incredibly humbled to be amongst the winners of the globally acknowledged Forbes Awards while describing the award as yet another acknowledgment of his administration’s success in creating an enabling environment for investment, and providing democratic governance in line with its vision, not only in the state but in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. “This is yet another acknowledgement of our success in creating an enabling environment for investment, and providing democratic governance in line with our vision, not only in Ogun State but also in Nigeria and in Africa as a whole. “Like they often say, the reward for hard work is more work, so we will continue to be relentless in the implementation of policies, programs and reforms to sustain the actualisation of our vision, and increase our ranking on the global Ease of Doing Business index. “As the Chief Marketing Officer of Ogun State, I am inviting you to come and invest in the Gateway State, and you would find us ready, willing and worthy partners”, the governor was quoted to have stated in the statement. Abiodun, however, expressed his gratitude to God for His grace, the people of Ogun state for their continued trust and support as well as members of his team for their cooperation and hard work. “I want to express my gratitude to God for His grace, the people of Ogun state for their continued trust and support as well as members of my team for their cooperation and hard work, members of my family for their patience and continued understanding, and also, the Foreign Investment Network and Forbes for this recognition”, the statement added. Chairman of Foreign Investment Network, FIN, Olayinka Fayomi, organisers of the event, said that FIN in partnership with Forbes has for decades identified emerging economies in Africa seeking investors and have exposed those investment gaps to Forbes Billionaires and international investors. She added that: “Over the years, Foreign Investment Network has worked together with Forbes Best of Africa to attract quality Foreign Direct Investment, FDI, in Oil and Gas, Aviation, Agriculture, Health care, Education, Infrastructure to the continent of Africa. The Forum also discussed how development and investments could be utilised as a mechanism to accelerate the emergence of an inclusive and innovative society. Forbes Award is exclusively conferred on individuals and corporate organisations with a distinguishing touch of excellency in their various endeavours. She added that Forbes identifies individuals with value of purpose, integrity and innovative business approach for the overall interest of humanity.