The newly appointed Director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Wapkerem Maigida, on Friday took over office following the recent posting and redeployment by the service. Maigida, who was the Commander of 551 NAF Station in Jos, took over from Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, who also replaced him in Jos. The NAF Headquarters on Wednesday announced the redeployment of its commanders at various levels. Maigida had served as Acting Director Defence Information at the Defence Headquarters before his posting to Jos in 2022. In his address, he promised to consolidate on the achievement of his predecessor, adding that it was a rare opportunity for him to serve as the image maker of the service. The director thanked the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, for the honour and privilege, saying he was fully aware of the responsibilities of his office to project the operational engagement and other activities of NAF. “With the aim of galvanising support and goodwill for the NAF in striving to project air power to conquer the myriads of security challenges currently bedeviling the country. “Let me assure you that the directorate will keep forging ahead under my watch to continue to churn out and leverage on online social platforms to bring out NAF stories in clear picture. “Indeed, I will continue to use the media space to strive and bring the narrative of NAF in enhancing national security architecture in the country.” The NAF spokesman urged media professionals to as partners, bear in mind that the current security challenges facing the country called for concerted efforts to stem the tide. He appreciated media practitioners for their individual support and cooperation during the tenure of the outgone DOPRI. “I urge you to remain steadfast as you carry out your work in informing and enlightening the public and bring them abreast of happenings within the defence and security sector. “I urge you to use your reportage and media outfit to shape public perceptions and views about the NAF towards enduring national security and defence of the country. “This I believe will boost combat efficiency and effectiveness of NAF towards enhancing operational airpower capabilities to confront the enemies of Nigeria,” he said. Maigida pledged to continue to project the service towards enhancing critical airpower capabilities and joint force employment in pursuit of national security imperative. He also promised to promote the clear values of NAF among the airmen and airwomen of the directorate for better services. The outgone DOPRI, Air Commodore Gabkwet, urged the new spokesman to strive hard to consolidate on what the directorate had done so far during his tenure as the image maker of the service. He urged the airmen and airwomen as well as other civilian staff of the service to extend the same cooperation he enjoyed during his tenure to the new image maker of the service. Gabkwet also urged media professionals to give the new director the maximum cooperation and support accorded him. (NAN)