BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Labour Party coalition of support groups in Southern Kaduna have passed a vote of no confidence on the party’s senatorial flag bearer, Michael Ayuba Auta, and endorsed the People’s Democratic Party candidate, Sunday Marshal Katung, ahead of the 2023 elections. Addressing a press conference in kafanchan, Jonah Bonet (Pompo), converner of the Southern Kaduna Coalition Groups of the Labour Party and ObiDient movement said, as a coalition, they are passing a vote of no confidence on the candidacy of Ayuba. “As members of the Labour Party, it is pertinent at this point to tell the world that we will not be voting the senatorial candidate of our party or be involved in any activity geared towards galvanising support for his election; instead, we have unanimously agreed to endorse the Senatorial Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sunday Marshall Katung”. The coalition averred that, “We cannot in good conscience support the Senatorial Candidate of our party given his record as a serial betrayer and untrustworthy personality. It is common knowledge, for instance, that Mr. Auta has for a long time paraded himself as an Engineer, whereas he is not. He also has been involved in several cases bothering on breach of trust, some of which are allegedly still with the EFCC as we speak. “The people of southern Kaduna deserve better representation and Barr. Sunday Marshall Katung is by far better than the candidate of our party or any of the other candidates in this regard. “We are not prepared to vote or support someone with questionable character to represent Southern Kaduna at the Senate simply because of party loyalty. Our support and endorsement of PDP’s Sunday Marshall Katung should not, in any way, be misconstrued as an anti-party activity. Instead, we should be applauded for our courage to expose who Mr. Michael Auta truly is, so that we do not end up with a rogue as our Senator. “Meanwhile, the endorsement of the PDP’s Senatorial Candidate, does not in any way invalidate our resolve to work for the success of our Presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi and our gubernatorial candidate, Hon. Jonathan Asake. “We are committed to mobilising at least one million votes for the Obi-Datti ticket ahead of the presidential elections next month. For us, it is Southern Kaduna first, before any political party,” he stressed.