The Igbo Community in Oyo State, on Saturday, threw its full weight behind the second term bid of Governor ‘Seyi Makinde, saying that the policy thrust of his administration has been of immense benefit to indigenes and non-indigenes. Speaking on behalf of the Igbo community in the state, at the Prince and Princess Event Centre, NTC Road, Iyaganku Quarters, Ibadan, some leaders of the community hinged their support on what they called the governor’s tremendous achievements in the area of infrastructure and security across the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the trio of Collins Okoli, Chima Onah and Mrs. Anne Ekwueme, spoke on behalf of the Igbo community. They equally commended the governor for carrying the Igbo along in his government by appointing Igbo people into his administration. While responding, Governor Makinde explained that his administration has ensured that citizens and residents of the state have equal opportunities, as nobody was discriminated against in his administration, adding that things would get “even better under Omituntun 2.0.” Governor Makinde also stated that he had instructed the Commissioner for Lands to look for a plot of land for the Igbo Community to build a hall, even before the request was put to him by the Igbo leadership in the state. The governor promised to hand over the Certificate of Occupancy of the land to the community before the election, even as he promised to look into their request to appoint a  member of the Igbo community into higher positions in government, if he is re-elected as governor of the state. Governor Makinde, who admonished the Igbo community in Oyo State to vote for the unity of the country, urged them to vote for him and all candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party in the National and State Assembly elections on February 25 and March 11 respectively. He said: “The way we have chosen to develop Oyo State is to encourage commerce and the expansion of our economy. “Before now, if you are a business person from Moniya at Akinyele LG, to get to Iseyin to do business, it would take you three to four hours. “But since this administration came in and fixed the Moniya-Iseyin Road, it will only take you 45 minutes. “If you look at our Airport, we want connectivity and certain conditions were given to us. Almost all of the conditions are being met and very soon, you will have a direct flight from Ibadan to Enugu; from Ibadan to Port Harcourt. “We have also chosen to ensure that citizens and residents of Oyo State have equal opportunities, as nobody is discriminated against. Under Omituntun 2.0, it can only get better. “I know you asked for a commissionership slot and you may want an answer straight away. In the hierarchy of government, we have the Commissioners, DGs and Special Advisers, which are the three most sought after positions. You don’t have any of those slots right now but what I can promise you is, in the next administration, you will get at least one slot. “I have also noted most of things you asked for including scholarship, slots for pilgrimage, a land for a hall. Before you asked for the land, I already instructed the Commissioner for Lands to look for a plot, and I will hand over the CofO to the Igbo community before the election.” Rallying the Igbo people to vote for PDP candidates in the legislative elections, the governor said electing PDP candidates as lawmakers will make development faster, as they would cooperate with the state government to bring dividends of democracy to the people. “We have all the candidates contesting the election here with me under the PDP, please vote for them also and they will cooperate with the government of Oyo State, which will bring more dividends of democracy to all of us. “If you like Omituntun 1.0, you must like Omituntun 2.0. So, vote for me as your governor and other candidates as well. “Finally, I want to say that as a member of the G5, I am not a rebel and we are not rebels but people of integrity. My final word is, vote for the unity of this country.” The event witnessed the traditional kolanut breaking culture of the Igbo and Abariba war dance.