BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke has advocated the need for a renewed reform and funding of Nigeria’s security sector for an improved and effective service delivery. Governor Adeleke made the call on Sunday at the grand finale of the year 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration held at the New Military Cenotaph, situated in front of the State House of Assembly, Osogbo. Adeleke, who noted the many security challenges in the country, added that the situation called for quick intervention of governments at all levels. He also explained that governments at all levels must come together to instill an improved service delivery of the personnel and unconditional care for the families of the dead and veteran members of the Armed Forces. Governor Adeleke further reiterated that national leaders must reevaluate the nation’s finance options not just on military hardware but in all forms. At the occasion which had the retinue of who is who in Osun State including the wives of the fallen soldiers, the Osun helmsman also paid homage to the late veterans for their patriotic services to  keep Nigeria one. He said the federal and state governments must ensure that their gratitude towards the service men and women translates to improved service conditions for them and unconditional care for the veterans and their families. “The grand finale is an opportunity to recap the laudable commitment to the men and women of the Armed Forces, living and the dead. Our gathering is in solemn tribute to the dead as well as living men and women who paid a supreme price for the existence of our nation as an individual and an indivisible entity. “The laying of the wreath that we are performing is not a mere jamboree. This is not a fun seeking exercise. “Our gathering is a solemn tribute to the dead as well as the living. We are celebrating men and women who pay the supreme price for the continuous existence of our nation as an indivisible entity. We salute our heroes, the gallant servicemen whose blood were spilled for national defense. At the same time, we pay homage to our veterans, the living witnesses of patriotic service. “As I noted during the emblem fund raising launch, the nation owes a debt of gratitude to our service men and women for their past and present service to the nation. Governments at all levels must ensure that our gratitude translates to improved service conditions for service personnel and unconditional care for the veterans and their families. “I advocate a renewed focus on funding of the security sector alongside security sector reform. As a nation, we are faced with mounting security challenges at a time of national and global economic crises. National and state leaders must therefore brainstorm on how best to meet the financial needs of the security sector. Despite competing needs, a new national dialogue on sustainable funding for the Armed forces and other security services is necessary now more than ever before. “We must re-evaluate our financing options, focusing not just on military hardware. We must innovate to care sufficiently for the welfare of service personnel and veterans. Neglecting welfare of service personnel is a disservice to effective national defense. “Permit me to use this opportunity to assure our veterans in Osun state that our government is already looking into their long list of demands. In due course, immediate action will be taken to satisfy the aspirations of veterans in the state,” he promised.