The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, on Friday tasked Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited board and management on better performance and revenue generation. Pantami gave the charge at a one day ministerial retreat for board and management of NIGCOMSAT on Friday in Abuja. The theme of the retreat was ‘Re-engineering NIGCOMSAT management for 4th Industrial revolution and exponential growth’. He said the retreat was not to teach the NIGCOMSAT management and board members anything new but rather to think on how to revive the organisation and to be more effective. The minister recalled the Oronsanye report of 2012 which submitted to the Federal Government with many recommendations, including scrapping or merging of agencies or companies based on performance. “If we can turn things around and make Institutions more productive and effective, there is no way, government will think of scrapping or merging. “NIGCOMSAT and Galaxy Backbone are Federal Government companies with the mandate to generate revenue and that is why the Managing Director of NIGCOMSAT was strategically selected from the private sector,” Pantami said. He said the private sector was not business as usual, saying the NIGCOMSAT were not core civil servant but rather with the aim generating revenue. The minister however warned the Union of organisations should be careful about supporting those that are unproductive rather they should lobby for what is good for the system and not intimidate government in anyway. He also warned NIGCOMSAT not exploit customers in their bid to increase revenue as it will kill the goal of customer centric. “Customer centricity demands that the customer is the focal point of all decisions related to delivering products, services and experiences to create customer satisfaction, loyalty and advocacy,” Pantami said. The Chairman Governing Board of NIGCOMSAT, Yusuf Kazure, said there was a need to embrace the fourth industrial revolution. “This is the 4th industrial revolution which builds on the foundations of the first three revolutions, namely the steam engine, the age of science and mass production and the rise of digital technology. “While most of the developing world like Africa is still grappling with the 3rd revolution, the rest of the world has moved on to the 4th revolution that has brought the need for new skills in both management and leadership. “We cannot wait until there are massive dislocations in our society to prepare for the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” he said. The Managing Director, NIGCOMSAT Ltd, Tukur Lawal, said the theme for this retreat was apt, saying that it would provide the context for deliberations which would sharpen perspectives to grips with the issues around the organisation. “Furthermore, I see the outcome of this retreat as a primary requirement for me as I roll out my plan for the organisation. “When l arrived at NIGCOMSAT Ltd as the new Managing Director, l met a willing team, professionals in their different endeavors willing and waiting to be led,” he said. Lawal said like other organisations, NIGCOMSAT had its teething problems but the problems are not insurmountable. He said with encouragement of this nature, was on a sure path to chat a better direction for the company. “As a private sector manager of human and material resources, my desire is to nudge NIGCOMSAT Ltd unto the path of profitability. “With your support, Honourable Minister, the team l met on ground is poised for a new NIGCOMSAT Ltd,” Lawal said. He said with less than four years to deorbit the present satellite (NigComSat 1R), the need to fast track and ensure additional satellite to the country’s space industry cannot be overemphasized. “The satellite market in Africa and Nigeria in particular is large enough and NIGCOMSAT cannot be left out. “The launch of NigComSat 2 will further boost our confidence and strength the market,” Lawal said. (NAN)