The men who allegedly supervised the explosion that happened close to the Oyinoyi’s Palace in Okene Local Government Area of Kogi State on December 29, 2022 have been arrested by the Department of State Services. The DSS said Otaru (aka Abu Mikdad) and one of his associates, Saidu Suleiman were arrested on Tuesday January 3, 2023. The Public Relations Officer of the DSS, Peter Afunanya, said in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday, that Otaru sustained a gunshot injury on his left foot while attempting to escape, adding that he is currently receiving treatment at a health facility. According to the DSS spokesman, during investigations, it was ascertained that Otaru was a high commander of Islamic State West Africa Province and either coordinated or was involved in the following dastardly operations: i. The 24th June, 2022 attack on Nigeria Police Area Command, Eika-Ohizenyi, Okehi LGA of Kogi State. A Police Inspector, Idris MUSA was killed and two (2) AK-47 rifles carted away in that attack; ii. The 5th July, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre in Kuje Area Council of the FCT; and iii. 5th August, 2022 attack on West African Ceramics Ltd (WACL) in Ajaokuta LGA, Kogi in which three (3) Indian expatriates were kidnapped. Afunanya recalled that five persons including one Indian, two Policemen and two drivers of the company were also killed in the attack. He said the kidnapped expatriates were released on 31st August, 2022. “OTARU operated terrorist cells in and around Kogi State. Similarly, he and his gang had staged several kidnap operations in Kogi and Ondo States. Meanwhile, the suspects are in custody and will be prosecuted accordingly. “The Service reiterates its commitment to the safety of the nation. It assures to work assiduously with stakeholders including sister security agencies to tackle the menace of terrorism and other forms of criminality and threats to national security. It, therefore, calls on citizens to support it and other law enforcement organisations with relevant information and all the necessary cooperation required to achieve a peaceful country,” the DSS spokesman assured. The Point recalls that at least three people were feared dead in Okene, Kogi State following an explosion on Thursday, December 29, 2022. The explosion came hours after the arrival of President Muhammadu Buhari to commission some projects in the state. The explosion happened close to the Oyinoyi’s Palace in Okene Local Government Area of the state.