Erastus Awortu, Chairman, Andoni local government area in Rivers State has expressed determination to position the Council on the global business map through tourism. Awortu made this known on Saturday in Asarama, Andoni local government area in Rivers State. He stated this during a Boat Rigatta which formed part of programme at the second edition of the Andoni Unity Festival. The Unity festival initiated by the Awortu lead administration in 2021 has become a unifying factor across Communities in the area. Expressing satisfaction in terms of participation, creativity and impact on local economy, the Chairman said that the 2022 edition has shown visible improvements. He noted that the edition tagged ‘Visit! Promote! Invest in Andoni was part of continued efforts at drawing attention to the rich business and tourism potentials of the area. “Andoni is a place with huge tourism potentials, at this stage of our administration; we’ve set the ball rolling by ensuring sustainable peace as well as wooing investors to the area. “Currently, the economic impact may be minimal but our target is to encourage investors to begin to draw long term investment plan in tourism, hospitality and mechanised fishery in the area council,” he said. The council boss also described the boat regatta as a historic territorial protection emblem which has evolved into grassroots administration in modern democracy. “The idea of boat regatta is a clear representation of the various ‘War Canoes Houses’ which represents Political Wards in modern administrative demography thereby, straightening unity and grassroots administration. “The boat regatta is a major part of our history and we’re preserving it through entertainment,” he said. Similarly, Kagbang Ofiks, Peoples Democratic Party candidate for Andoni state Constituency has applauded the council chairman’s determination to attract investment to the area. Ofiks promised to sponsor a tourism bill if elected into power in 2023. According to him, the bill will further enhance economic visibility of the area. (NAN)