BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Indigenous People of Biafra has declined the offer by the Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuma Soludo, to stand as surety for its detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu. The proscribed group said that Kanu had already been discharged and acquitted of all charges by the Court of Appeal on October 13, 2022, hence the governor’s offer was belated and not needed. Disclosing this in a statement issued on Monday by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the separatist group asked Soludo to, rather, call on the Federal Government to respect the judgement of its own court and free its leader who no longer has any more charges against him. The group’s statement read, “We have gone beyond issue of surety or no surety. Every genuine call/demand in the prevailing circumstance should be firmly directed at calling out on the Federal Government of Nigeria to immediately obey the order for the unconditional release of Nnamdi Kanu by its own court. “IPOB and all the remaining 8-Count amended charge preferred against him, and consequently directed for his unconditional release. The landmark judgement further prohibited the Federal Government of Nigeria from further detaining our leader or even presenting him for trial on any indictment or offence whatsoever before any court in Nigeria. “It is important therefore, to clarify that our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU has no any form of indictment or even charge pending against him today before any court by the authority of this Judgement. “The issue of granting bail or otherwise does not arise by any stretch of consideration or imagination, because it is the Federal Government that is today in breach of this order of superior court of competent Jurisdiction. “It is to be emphasized further that onyendu who was discharged on the 13th Day of October 2022, by the Court of Appeal do not have any need for surety because there is no charge hanging on his neck today. “We have gone beyond issue of Surety or no surety, every genuine call/demand in the prevailing circumstance should be firmly directed at calling out on the Federal Government of Nigeria to immediately obey the order for the unconditional release of Onyendu made by its own court. “May we also remind Governor Soludo and others that Onyendu’s current incarceration is not sanctioned by any law known to man, it is unconstitutional and affront to constitutional democracy and rule of law. “Further to the above, is the fact that Mazi Nnamdi KANU have no case to answer again, therefore, the need for surety does not arise, instead Governor Soludo should gear all his efforts towards persuading and compelling on the lawless Fulani rulers of Nigeria to obey their own Law. “It is to be pointed out further, that this kind of plea is the reason why Janjawead rulers of Nigeria have no regard for the rule of Law, why should we be pleading with them to obey their own court orders directing for the unconditional release of Onyendu. It’s compelling and mandatory on their part to obey their own court orders. “Federal Government is today in grave contempt of the orders of its own court, and their appeal before the Supreme Court cannot justify the present illegal incarceration of our leader in a solitary confinement in DSS,” it added.