Governor Hope Uzodimma has called on the Imo State Government Liaison Officers from Orlu, Okigwe and Owerri Zones to be courageous and take charge of their polling units and wards, noting that those who instill fears in them are enemies of the State. The Governor who spoke on Thursday when he met with them at their Secretariat at Mbari Street in Owerri reminded the officers who are mostly youths that “the future of every country is dependent on the young generation.” The Governor told them that they are the Government’s cabinet members at the grassroots because “Government is not what one person can manage alone,” reminding them once more than they are the government he is seeing in their different Local Government Areas. Governor Uzodimma also enjoined them to “go home, call meetings, know who are the members of your polling units, from time to time appreciate them and inform them of the importance of having good government.” The Governor assured them that in no time “insecurity in the State will be a thing of the past” and that his government will do everything within its powers to stop the insecurity in the State. “Insecurity in Imo State will be a thing of the past, everything will be done to achieve it, even if it is matching force for force.” Furthermore, he informed them that the forthcoming elections will be done peacefully and that the APC will win in all places in the State. Governor Uzodimma reminded the Liaison officers and the two-member nominees of every polling unit that they have a role to play to enable the government move forward and for the betterment of all and insisted that as GLOs they are to be in charge of government projects and infrastructure in their communities. Charging them to be the eyes of the government in their different areas, he said “governance is by partnering with the people towards the development of the State.” The Governor assured them that he will rebuild government schools such that they can compete with private schools in the State and promised not to disappoint Imo people as their Governor. On the facilities the GLOs will need to work effectively, he promised to provide them, emphasizing that he desires that the people be part of what is happening in the government. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Chief Political Adviser/Head Political Bureau, Enyinna Onuegbu said that “the essence of the meeting is to have a roll call and identify the GLOs one by one to ensure that what they have in the list corresponds with those in attendance.” Onuegbu further informed that the GLOs are drawn from the different polling units from Orlu, Okigwe and Owerri zones. Meanwhile, after the meeting, the Governor proceeded to inspect the on-going MCC/Uratta road under construction where he expressed satisfaction over the progress of work, especially the quality and pace maintained by the contractors. He assured that at the rate the construction work is progressing, the road will be ready for use in the next one month. Governor Uzodimma described the mood of the residents of the area  as “the definition of democracy,” and regretted that enemies of democracy and the State as well as those who thought they will bring government down are not happy with the achievements so far recorded. He pointed out that the ability of his government to achieve so much in road infrastructure and in other areas of development and at the same time, fight insecurity, is simply a factor of prudence.  “That is prudent management of the available resources at the disposal of the State under my watch.”