BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Two men suspected to be street gangsters have been apprehended by men of the Osun State Police Command for allegedly attacking an artisan while installing street solar light in their community. The suspects, namely Yusuf Jamiu, aged 27 and Oyebisi Yusuf, aged 23, were said to have caused tension in Ifon-Osun community, Orolu Local Government Area of the state, for not being given N1.5million bribe that they demanded from a philanthropist who donated the solar light to the community. A spirited member of the community was said to have procured the solar street light. However, as the installer, Prince David Akinyooye, began to fix it, the duo, alongside one other, popularly known as Ola, now at large, stormed the scene with dangerous weapons insisting that they must be paid some bribe before the installation is done. The suspects allegedly swooped on Akinyooye and beat him to stupor while carrying out the installation. They were also said to have threatened the peace of the community by brandishing guns and cutlasses. The police arrested Jamiu and Oyebisi while their gang leader escaped. They were arraigned before a Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo on six-count-charge bordering on assault, conspiracy, conduct likely to cause breach of the peace and attempted murder. Police prosecutor, Taiwo Adegoke, informed the court that the accused persons assaulted Babatunde and also stole his bag containing a National Identity Card, Voter Card and the sum of N72, 000 on December 24, 2022. The charge against them read that “Yusuf Jamiu and Oyebisi Yusuf (males) with others now at large, on the 24th of December 2022 at Ayetoro area, Ifon-Osun, did conspire to commit felony to wit assault, conduct likely to cause breach of peace, attempted murder by carrying guns and other dangerous weapons with intent to inflict injury on one Prince Akinyooye Daivd Babatunde and causing fear to the public and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You, Yusuf Jamiu, Oyebisi Yusuf, with others now at large, on the same date and place at the aforementioned Magisterial District, did beat one Prince Akinyooye David Babatunde up with a dangerous weapon. As a result, he sustained injury on his right eye after demanding for the sum of N1.5 million and pieces of solar light before he could install the public solar light and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You did steal bags containing National I.D Card, Voter Card and the sum of N72,000 (Seventy-two thousand naira only) from Akinyooye David Babatunde and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section and punishable under Section 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You did go round in the public with guns, cutlass and other dangerous weapons with intent to cause terror to people and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 80 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You did form a group armed with dangerous weapons like guns, sticks with intent to commit felony or misdemeanor and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 509 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You did conduct yourselves in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by obstructing one Akinyooye David Babatunde during the installation of the street solar light for public use and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 249(d) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002.” They pleaded not guilty to the allegations. Their counsel, Kehinde Adepoju, could not apply for their bail as the Chief Magistrate, Olusegun Ayilara, ordered that they should be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre. Ayilara said that the matter should be mentioned at the Ifon-Osun Magistrate’s Court on January 9.