Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has saluted the resilience of the people of the state while dedicating the 2022 Governor of the Year Award by The Sun Newspapers to victims of last year’s monster floods in the state. Speaking in Lagos on Saturday night shortly after he received the award, Governor Diri expressed delight that people of the state were able to surmount the challenges presented by the disaster. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as also commending the people for supporting his administration and that the award will spur him to do more. Governor Diri particularly lauded the legislature and judiciary in the state for the synergy among the three arms of government, saying the cooperation has contributed greatly to the successes recorded by his administration. He noted that the prevailing peace and harmony in the state was one of the prized achievements of his administration and stressed the need for the people to sustain the tempo, saying it was the only way Bayelsa can make good progress. “This is more about the people of Bayelsa State. Whatever award we receive today is on behalf of the people of the state that have been very supportive. “Also, the three arms of government working together, that synergy has helped us achieve whatever we are seeing today. We give glory to God. “I like to on behalf of the prosperity administration appreciate the good people of Baysa State, particularly the flood victims. We know what we went through and we thank God that we are alive to receive an award from The Sun. “This to me is in recognition of the efforts of the people of Bayelsa State. It is in terms of the human and infrastructural development as well as the peace and harmony we are enjoying.” Earlier, Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of The Sun, Onuoha Ukeh, said the award, which was the 20th edition, is dedicated to recognizing those that have contributed to the development of Nigeria. In his remarks, the chairman of the occasion and former governor of Ogun state, Olusegun Osoba, expressed appreciation to the management and staff of the organisation for organizing the awards, saying it is a good way of encouraging development in Nigeria. While describing next month’s general elections as crucial to the survival of Nigeria, Osoba hailed the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) by the Independent National Electoral Commission and urged Nigerians to be fully involved in the process in accordance with the laws of the land.. The governor was accompanied to the event by Senator Moses Cleopas representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere, some state legislators, chairman of the state Peoples Democratic Party, Solomon Agwana, business moguls, Gesi Asamowei and Ken Etete, Waripamowei Dudafa, members of the state executive council as well as other government functionaries.