Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has returned to Maiduguri after leading stakeholders of the All Progressive Congress on tour of three local government areas in the southern part of Borno for the first phase of the APC’s campaign in the region. The governor kicked off the rally on Monday at the stadium in Biu, the political headquarters of southern Borno. He stressed continuous commitment to securing all parts of the state. Zulum assured that his government will focus on providing job opportunities to the youth, empowering women and the vulnerable and quality education. On Tuesday after spending two nights in Hawul and Biu, Zulum was in Kwaya-Kusar and Bayo Local Government Areas. He addressed thousands of party supporters amidst cheers from the crowd. Speaking at the occasion, Borno APC Chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori, expressed confidence that Zulum’s performance in the last three and half years will give the APC an unprecedented win in the forthcoming elections. Dalori noted that Governor Zulum has invested massively in education, with numerous schools renovated and new ones built. Instructional facilities were provided for effective teaching and learning. In the area of healthcare delivery, Dalori noted that the present administration has constructed over 200 primary healthcare centres and the existing one was renovated and upgraded. Hundreds of health workers were employed to ensure affordable and quality healthcare services. The party Chairman stressed that Governor Zulum has revitalised the healthcare sector which was destroyed by the insurgency. He said, people in rural communities no longer travel distances to seek medical care. Dalori emphasises that Zulum has achieved remarkably during the last three and half years of his administration. He called on the good people of Borno to elect all APC candidates in the state. Critical stakeholders from the southern part of Borno including the Deputy Governor, Umar Usman Kadafur, members of the national and state assembly, commissioners, top government functionaries and party officials joined the governor during the two-day rally. In Bayo Local Government, Zulum announced a plan to establish the “Borno State Mineral Resources Commission” which will explore a number of minerals in Bayo and other parts of Borno State. Zulum noted that there were thousands of minerals that the state could not explore over the years. He, therefore, assured that with the emerging peace, Borno will not relent until all opportunities are explored.