BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee has opened invitations for lawyers to apply for the 2023 award for the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) with a one million Naira fee. According to a notice from the LPPC’s Secretary and Chief Supreme Court Registrar, Hajo Bello, the purchase of the application, which started on January 1, will finish on March 31, 2023. The notice dated Tuesday, stated that the invitation was in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(2) of the Legal Practitioners Act, Cap L11 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and Regulation 10 (1) (4) of the Guidelines for the Conferment of the Rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria 2022. The notice read, ”The Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee (the LPPC” or “the Committee”) hereby makes a formal call for applications preparatory to the award of the rank for the year 2023. “Commencing with this year’s exercise, applications shall only be made online and prospective applicants are directed to visit www.lppconline.com to make their applications.” It further directed prospective applicants that an applicant must pay a non-refundable processing fee of N1,000.000.00 only to any of their bank accounts. “Only clear copies of materials presented shall be considered/acceptable by the Secretariat in compliance with Regulation 9(2) of the Guidelines. In the case of Academic applicants who may wish to submit publications that are too voluminous to be conveniently scanned and uploaded, it shall be sufficient to scan and upload the title page of such publications, whilst submitting the hard copies along with the flash drives referred to in clause 25 below. “After uploading copies of all mandatory or supporting documents online, applicants shall also submit five flash drives containing a copy of their completed application form (to be downloaded from the online portal) as well as copies of all the mandatory and supporting documents uploaded on the online platform to the LPPC Secretariat. “Any application together with supporting documents submitted in a manner contrary to the directives of the LPPC as enumerated above will be rejected by the Secretariat. “All applications together with their mandatory or supporting documents must be submitted online at www.lppconline.com before 12:00 noon on March 31, 2023, whilst the flash drives referred to in clause 25 above must be delivered to the LPPC Secretariat before 4:00 pm on April 3, 2023. “Upon conclusion of payment, an applicant should upload a copy of the evidence of payment on the application portal. The applicant will receive an email notification from the LPPC Secretariat confirming the applicant’s payment and clearing the applicant to proceed with the application process online.” The LPPC warned further that any submission made after the deadlines “shall be treated as a non-submission.”