BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO/span> Rainstorm has destroyed houses and damaged other property worth millions of naira in some communities in Osun State. The communities affected are Ikirun and Ilare, in Ifelodun and Obokun Local Government Areas of the state respectively. It was gathered that the first rain of the year, which fell on Monday, January 23, destroyed houses and damaged other property at Odoofun, Labaika and Emiloju areas of the ancient town. The rain was said to have started early in the evening and lasted some minutes. According to residents, though the rain was brief, it came with disastrous storm that left many residents of the affected communities in Ikirun counting their losses. Some of the residents of the affected areas explained that the victims had since been in sad mood as the roofs of their houses were removed by the rainstorm. They said the destruction caught the victims unawares as it happened when the people were still battling economic downturn and increase in the prices of items, including building materials. One of the leaders of the areas, Ayokunle Adekunle, said no one expected that the rain would occasion such disaster, being the first in the year. He called on the state government to come to the aid of the people affected. Another stakeholder in the area, Olusola Babawale, appealed to Gov ernor Ademola Adeleke to assist the affected residents. Residents of the areas further called on the government and well meaning individuals to come to their rescue “as the destruction caused by the rainstorm is too much for them to bear.” In Ilare, the rainstorm destroyed houses and took kiosks away. The late night rainfall of about 40 minutes was said to have brought pain and hardship on the affected indigenes of the agrarian community. One of the community leaders, Tope Abiola, confirmed to The Point that the incident happened on Friday night and that some victims had been rendered homeless after wind blew off their roofs. Abiola appealed to the state government to provide palliative and succour to the affected residents.