BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO After about a month absence in Osun, the immediate past governor Adegboyega Oyetola has returned to the state to lead campaign for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu and its running mate, Kashim Shettima in the state. Immediately Oyetola got to Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Office in Osogbo on Monday, he was received with funfair by members of the APC in the state. He had left the state after the end of his single term on November 27, 2022 while Governor Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party took over reigns in the state. Addressing his supporters after attending an interdenominational prayer session organised by the party to herald year 2023, the former governor, who was accompanied by his wife, Kafayat, said he was back in the state to reclaim his mandate and to also ensure the victory of Tinubu and Shettima in the state during the February poll. Oyetola expressed displeasure at the high number of uncollected Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in the state and called on electorate to visit appropriate offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission to collect them. He said, “I am happy returning home. I wanted to come in gently and unannounced. That was why I didn’t announce my coming, but to my greatest surprise, you were already here in this huge number to welcome me. I thank you all for your undying love and unflinching support. “God has revealed to us that this year is a year of happiness and unending manifestations. God doesn’t fail His promises. This year is going to be a year of laudable achievements. We are going to reclaim our mandate. “God has made us to know that this year is for two victories. We will reclaim our mandate and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “After God is God. I just went to rest a bit. You can see that I am fresh. Part of what God has done that gladdens my heart is that I served this state wholeheartedly without a rest. “With the little time I was away to rest, I was able to be with my family particularly my grandchildren. I was able to go to Lesser Hajj with my wife, where I was able to thank God for all He has done and to further beseech His face for mercies upon my life. “He has returned us back to the state to reclaim our mandate soon. I am always glad because God really helped us to raise the bar of good governance as every citizen of Osun felt the impact of our administration. It is not by my power, it is by God’s. God is the Alfa and Omega of all. “And for those that are saying I have gone to Lagos to stay permanently, I have not. I am back. We will be here and here fully. By the Grace of God, I am coming back to power. Today’s event is for prayer and I believe God has answered our prayers as supplicated by the clerics of both faiths and all of us. “We will start our campaigns across the units, wards, local governments soon. So, don’t be intimidated, don’t give up, I will be around. Please don’t abandon the party, let us resume our meetings. “Osun shall rise again. Please let us jettison our differences and work together. Don’t allow anything to cause unnecessary division. Let us work together as usual. We don’t have another party other than this. I am overwhelmed by what I have been seeing and hearing, and this gives me assurances that out party remains the party to beat. “I am particularly very charged and energized by what I have seen, and I want to assure you that I will lead this party to victory by the grace of God. What I see today shows that victory is assured. Asiwaju is the man, he has no rival. Social media is not the issue. We are talking of people that have demonstrated capabilities. Go to Lagos State and see what he did. Go to Borno and see what his running mate, Shettima did. With Asiwaju/Shettima ticket banditry is over, it is going to be fought with technology. “I am worried by the number of uncollected PVCs in Osun — close to a million. Please, let’s collect ours. That is the only power that we have. “Let us collect them and elect Asiwaju. He has done excellently well and sacrificed a lot for this country. We are all witnesses to his achievements. I could remember that when the opposition party took over the southwest, he was the one that returned the region to progressive government. “We will soon inaugurate our Presidential Campaign Council. Though everybody can’t make the list, we are all important. Let us continue what we have been doing to strengthen the party. We shall continue to support everybody, including our candidates”, Oyetola added.