BY FESTUS OKOROMADU The Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning on Monday announced President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval of the appointment of board members of two key agencies under its supervision. A statement signed by Yunusa Tanko Abdullahi, said Lawal Sani Stores was appointed to the Board of the Federal Inland Revenue Service to replace Ado Danjuma. Similarly, the President was said to have approved the reappointment of members and the reconstitution of the Board of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation. According to the statement, appointment of the existing members of the Board whose four-year term became effective on December 9, 2018 expired on December 9, 2022. Adding that irrespective of the tenure of the appointment, NDIC operates a semester system for its Board. Consequently, the Board stands dissolved at the end of the tenure of first appointment. The board has five other members whose membership is by virtue of institutional or Office representation in line with the provision of Section 5 (2 c and d) of the NDIC, Act, 2006. “It becomes imperative to reconstitute the governing board the NDIC to avoid vacuum, ensure smooth operations of the corporation and ultimately boost the confidence of stakeholders and clients within the financial and banking sectors of the nation’s economy. “In the light of this, the new Governing Board is reconstituted through the appointment of five new members including the Chairman to form a new Board of Directors to oversee the affairs of the corporation for the next four years. “The appointment of some new members into the Board is aimed at injecting fresh ideas necessary to reposition the corporation for enhanced performance.” Those appointed to serve as members of the reconstituted Board of the NDIC for the four years includes: Abdulhakeem Mobolaji Abdullateef, (Chairman) from South West Zone, (new appointment); Osita Ogbu, (member) from South East Zone, (new appointment); Umar Gambo Jibrin, (member) from North Central Zone, (new appointment); Mohammed Attahiru Haruna (member) from North East Zone, (new appointment); Yasmin Zabath Dalhatu (Member, from North West zone, (new appointment); Simon Ogie, (member), from South South Zone, (new appointment); Abimbola Olashore (member), South West Zone, (new appointment); Muhammed Ali, Director Home Finance (member), Institutional (Rep of Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning); Haruna B. Mustapha, Director Banking Supervision Department, (member), Institutional (Rep of Central Bank of Nigeria); Bello Hassan, Managing Director (member), by virtue of office; Mustapha M. Ibrahim, Executive Director Operations (member), by virtue of office; and Ms. Emily Osuji, Executive Director Corporate Services (member), by virtue of office.