The Kwara State Government has challenged a chieftain of the Social Democratic Party in the state, Iyiola Oyedepo, to a live public debate over his claim that the incumbent administration has received the sums of N337bn from June 2019 to December 2021. Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Communication, Bashir Adigun, said in statement released in Ilorin on Wednesday, that the claim is a baseless lie. According to Adigun, “It is one of the several evidence-free postulations of Akogun Oyedepo who has a reputation of always wanting to be the wisest person in the room and the cleanest Kwaran that ever lived.” For the purpose of the general public, however, he challenged the SDP chieftain to a debate to be broadcast live on various broadcast platforms and or any other platform of his own choosing, saying “we will oblige and pay for. The media is also invited to this debate.” “This will allow each party to give the Kwara public a blow-by-blow account of what was earned in the said period, with corresponding evidence from the Federal Ministry of Finance.” Adigun explained that over the last three years, “the administration has done so much across different sectors to serve the public within available resources. It continues to improve on its own records, which, by all verifiable indices, are shoulder higher than where we are coming from.” “We recognise the tendency of the opposition to want to downplay the achievements of the ruling government. We are also not debating their right to (hold) whatever perception of the government, which is clearly at variance with the positive acclaims the administration has received from the non-partisan Kwara public. “However, we believe that facts are sacred. Since the data being discussed is available in the public, especially a neutral source which is the Federal Ministry of Finance, it is important we debate what has come to Kwara State so far in order to clear any doubt. “The government will be represented by the Honourable Commissioner for Finance and the Accountant General of the State. “Finally, we stand by the data presented in the article by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Rafiu Ajakaye. It is factual and can be verified from credible sources,” Adigun stressed.