TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO After spending two nights in the den of kidnappers, a female resident of Osogbo, capital of Osun State, Mrs. Olayinka Kayode and her child have been freed. The housewife who was kidnapped on Tuesday, while returning home from the day’s work, was released on Thursday. The police in the state confirmed Kayode’s release but didn’t reveal the conditions attached to her freedom. Also, the Union Baptist Church, Odi-Olowo, Osogbo, where the woman and her family are attending, told The Point that its members were freed on Thursday afternoon. The Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola and Sunday Adeoye, a Senior Pastor of Union Baptist Church, Odi-Olowo, Osogbo, said she and her daughter were released unhurt. The cleric said in a statement issued by the church’s spokesperson, Oluwamayowa Fagbohungbe, that the woman and her daughter were released after intensive prayers. He, however, did not say whether ransom was paid but commended security agencies, members of the church and the media for their prayers and support towards the release of the victims. The housewife and her child were kidnapped around 6.00p.m on Tuesday, while returning home from her shop. The woman was said to be a teacher in the Union Baptist Church. The kidnappers had contacted the woman’s husband and demanded for N5 million ransom which they said should be sent to the woman’s bank account. The Church had said efforts were on to negotiate with the abductors before the news of their release broke. After spending two nights in the den of kidnappers, a female resident of Osogbo, capital of Osun State, Mrs. Olayinka Kayode and her child have been freed. The housewife who was kidnapped on Tuesday, while returning home from the day’s work, was released on Thursday. The police in the state confirmed Kayode’s release but didn’t reveal the conditions attached to her freedom. Also, the Union Baptist Church, Odi-Olowo, Osogbo, where the woman and her family are attending, told The Point that its members were freed on Thursday afternoon. The Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola and Sunday Adeoye, a Senior Pastor of Union Baptist Church, Odi-Olowo, Osogbo, said she and her daughter were released unhurt. The cleric said in a statement issued by the church’s spokesperson, Oluwamayowa Fagbohungbe, that the woman and her daughter were released after intensive prayers. He, however, did not say whether ransom was paid but commended security agencies, members of the church and the media for their prayers and support towards the release of the victims. The housewife and her child were kidnapped around 6.00p.m on Tuesday, while returning home from her shop. The woman was said to be a teacher in the Union Baptist Church. The kidnappers had contacted the woman’s husband and demanded for N5 million ransom which they said should be sent to the woman’s bank account. The Church had said efforts were on to negotiate with the abductors before the news of their release broke.