BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State Police Command has arraigned three men for allegedly assaulting some residents of the state and stealing from them. The suspects, namely Muritala Kadiri, aged 23; Jimoh Mutiu, 47; and Olaide Teslim, 29, were dragged before a Magistrate’s Court in Osogbo on seven-count-charge bordering on conspiracy, assault occasioning harm, breach of public peace and theft. Police prosecutor, Inspector Kayode Adeoye, informed the court that the trio at different places in Osogbo on January 7, 2023, “at about 12pm at Costain area, Osogbo in the Osogbo magisterial district, did conspire to commit felony to with assault occasioning harm on one Adeleke Moroof and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You, Muritala Kadir, Jimoh Mutiu, Olaide Teslim and other now at large, on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district, did conduct yourselves in a manner likely to cause breach of peace and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 249 (d) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “Muritala Kadir and other now at large on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district did assault one Adeleke Moroof by beating him up with stick and fist and inflicting injuries on his face and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “Jimoh Mutiu, Olaide Teslim and others now at large, on the 7th of January, 2023 at 7pm at Oke-Baale area Osogbo in the Osogbo magisterial district, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to with assault occasioning harm on one Taofeek Bolarinwa and Atoyebi Morufu and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “Jimoh Mutiu, Olaide Teslim and others now at large on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district, did assault one Atoyebi Morufu with sticks and other dangerous weapons and inflict injuries on his eye and head and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “Jimoh Mutiu, Olaide Teslim and other now at large on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district, did assault one Taofeek Bolarinwa with sticks and other dangerous weapon and inflict injuries on his head and body and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “Jimoh Mutiu, Olaide Teslim and others now at large on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned magisterial district, did steal one wrist watch valued at N40, 000 and the sum of N180, 000, total cash value of N220, 000 properties of one Taofeek Bolarinwa and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 390 (9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002.” The trio pleaded not guilty to the allegations. Their counsel, Kehinde Adepoju, urged the court to grant them bail in liberal terms. Chief Magistrate Olusola Aluko granted the defendants bail in the sum of N500, 000 with one surety each in the same amount. The matter was adjourned till February 2 for mention.