BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, on Friday said that he and other members of the All Progressives Congress, will joyfully escort the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu to the Presidential Villa, Abuja on May 29. Governor Bello stated this while fielding questions from the State House correspondents after meeting behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Asked about the chances of Tinubu to win the February 25 presidential election, he said, “Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu has 21 APC governors. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has touched lives of Nigerians across the board. He is a performer. He is a builder. “He built human beings, he built nations. And he has started telling us exactly what he’s going to do. And his administration, by the special grace of God, is going to be more run by the younger generation. “And you know, surely that the younger generation constitute the quantum number of voters in this coming election. “We’re more enlightened. We know that Bola Ahmed Tinubu knows the road. And we are ready to follow that person who knows the road, which is Bola Ahmed Tinubu . “Thank God that he is a candidate of President Muhammadu Buhari. And that is why you can see that President Muhammadu Buhari is already campaigning for him, that he will continue where he will stop. To continue to add to the value of what he has put on ground. “So the issue of any other person campaigning against him, I mean, you’re only making him to be more popular. He’s already a good product that has sold himself. He has distinguished himself and we’re all 100% ready to vote Bola Ahmed Tinubu, come 25th of February 2023. And we will joyfully escort him to the villa on May 29, 2023 by the special grace of God, Jagaban is just a president-in-waiting by the special grace of God. Thank you very much.” Asked what were the secrets behind the legacy projects inaugurated by the President, the governor said, “Yes, definitely. You know, when Mr. President assumed office, immediately he assumed office, he quickly hit the ground running in terms of infrastructure, in terms of fighting insecurity, in terms of delivering good governance to the people, by the special grace of God, when I came on board, I have no any other thing to do than to emulate him. And to make sure that infrastructure is provided for the people. “Once there is infrastructure, businesses will run. People will mind their business without necessarily waiting for government. And that is the only thing we can do for the people. And that is why we are elected into this office. And that is what I will continue to do. Till the last day I leave office.”