Many residents of Abeokuta wept profusely on Tuesday when the decomposing corpse of Oreoluwa Fatinoye was recovered from Ogun river. Oreoluwa is the son of Kehinde Fatinoye, and his wife, Bukola, who were assassinated by yet-to-be-identified assassins in Abeokuta on New Year Day. It was gathered that Oreoluwa was taken away from home after his parents were killed and burnt and was reportedly thrown into a river along the Adigbe-Obada road in Abeokuta. The Point gathered that local divers were hired by the state Police Command to search for the body of Oreoluwa. His decomposing body was discovered on Tuesday floating on the river by fishermen. It was observed that both hands of Oreoluwa were tied with rope to the back. Speaking on the discovery, the fisherman, Idowu Taiwo, said he discovered the body floating on the river while he was preparing for the day’s work. He said, “On Monday, we heard that someone was thrown into this river, but this morning while we were preparing for work, the police approached us and pleaded with us to inform them any time we discover the body. “But, this morning, around 7.30, we discovered the body while we were checking on our equipment in the river. I called someone to help us get the number of the PPRO to tell him that we have discovered the body. “Not long after, the police came and we showed them the body after we had brought it to the river bank.” The police later took the corpse away. It was gathered that the assailants after killing the couple, set their corpse and the house, located within the Ibara Government Reservation Area, Abeokuta, ablaze. It was learnt that the killers had trailed the couple to their residence from their church, where they had attended the crossover service to usher in the New Year. The husband, Kehinde Fatinoye, was an employee of the Central Bank of Nigeria, while the wife, Bukola, was an employee of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta. The couple, who were burnt beyond recognition, were on Monday buried amidst tears by sympathizers, family and friends. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer of the command, Superintendent of Police, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the police had commenced investigation to unravel the mystery behind the death of the Fatinoyes. Oyeyemi said a suspect had been arrested in connection to the incident.