BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The immediate past governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Thursday, inaugurated the Osun Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council in Osogbo. Oyetola, who is the State Coordinator, Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council tasked the newly-inaugurated members of the PCC to begin to intensify efforts towards ensuring all round victory for the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate and his running mate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima and all APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections. This is even as Oyetola reiterated that Osun would ensure the delivery of over a million votes for the party’s flag bearer in the next presidential election saying APC has offered the best candidate to turn around Nigeria’s fortunes. Inaugurating members of the Council, at the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Office in Osogbo, Oyetola said no stone would be left unturned to ensure the emergence of Tinubu and Shettima as well as all the candidates of the party in the national and state assemblies’ elections. Oyetola noted that the country was in dire need of a competent individual like Tinubu to build on the gains of the incumbent administration and drive the nation’s potential for socioeconomic growth and development of the country. According to him, there is no room for experiment on the choice of next president at this critical time in the history of Nigeria, hence the need to elect Tinubu whose political pedigree, good, responsible and responsive governance antecedents are second to none. Oyetola who described Tinubu/Shettima ticket as divine, said it is worthy of note that the team is powered by tested and trusted hands as it offers a renewed hope for all in all sectors, ensures today and assures tomorrow for all and sundry. While tasking the members of the party to remain resolute, united and unperturbed, Oyetola expressed delight in the firmness of the party’s structure and commitment of the leadership and members of the APC in the State, saying it is signal to the fact that the party remains the party to beat anytime and any-day in Osun. Earlier, the acting State APC Chairman, Tajudeen Lawal, urged the party’s loyalists to begin door-to-door campaigns and mobilisation of people to troop out en masse to elect and ensure victory for the party. Speaking in the same vein, Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, expressed confidence in God that Oyetola would be victorious and returned as Osun Governor while Tinubu would also be elected the next president of the country. Owoeye who described the outcome of the July 16, 2022 Osun governorship as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC as a temporary setback, said God would soon return Oyetola back to govern the state for a second term before July this year.