Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, on Thursday, inaugurated a Committee to review the Civil and Public Service Rules and Regulations in the state for more effective and productive service delivery. The governor while inaugurating the Committee at the Executive Council Chamber, Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, said that most of the rules and regulations guiding the activities of the workers are no longer effective compared to the emerging environment. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as explaining that the Civil/Public Service Rules and Regulation Volume I and II was last reviewed in the year 2013, adding that there is the need for the public/civil service to embrace the use of technology for more effective and productive service delivery. He maintained that the Committee would be joined by the private sector to serve as a bridge between the old and the new generation. He appreciated the workers of the State for their commitment at ensuring the application of relevant rules to certain issues, which he said, culminates into the delivery of the dividends of democracy to all and sundry in the Pacesetter state. He said: “We are here today to inaugurate the Committee on Review of Public Service Rules and Regulations and I think I need to talk briefly on why this is needed. “The last review, according to the records made available to me for Volumes I and II, was conducted in 2013, which is about ten years ago. “Some of the rules have not been reviewed since then, and since that time, things have changed very much. For instance, the advancement of technology requires that things be done differently now. But people are still so much used to carrying files around. “So, this means that if the civil and public service is to continue being efficient, changes must also be made to the rules that guide the conduct of the activities under the public and civil service. “This is why we are here to inaugurate this Committee, which will review all public service rules to ensure that they are up-to-date and there is a bit clearer direction to civil and public servants in Oyo State. “Also, from just an observer’s standpoint, we are supposed to be practising federalism but suddenly, you may hear an announcement of another thing that is happening at the federal level and the next thing is how do we domesticate it? “The issue of teachers retiring at 65 years old is something that was brought upon us and the teachers were agitating. But I said, look, this has been approved and waded into by the FG. We discussed it at the Exco meeting and different questions came up. We said, look, is this going to be automatic or voluntary? This is because some people, after 60 years, may just want to go home. So, what do you do to such people? What about their pension too? Should it stop at 60 or we extend it to 65? “For those people that will be affected, what percentage of those people are still actively teaching? Are they principals, vice-principals that we want to elongate the length of their service and how does that benefit the state. Those are the vital questions but the type of federalism we have does not have regard for the sub-nationals as they think they are more important, whereas we are supposed to have co-ordinate powers. “So, those are things that this Committee will have to sort out, because there will be areas where the path of the state and the federal will definitely be crossing. “I am a believer that the people at the Federal Government are not smarter than those at the state level. We demonstrated it during COVID-19 pandemic that we can come out with far better ideas compared to that of federal level.” The governor maintained that the Committee’s efforts would be complemented by the private sector, as it would work in synergy with Deloitte & Touche Consulting. “We also need input from those who are working in the private sector, who understand how things work. “So, this Committee will form a synergy with the private sector to achieve this reform. As I have always said, our civil and public service guides the policies of our administration. There cannot be any successful administration if the people who are supposed to guide the policies don’t know which direction to go. “Without the inputs of the public/civil service, we might not have accomplished all we have done since we assumed office. So, let me use this opportunity to say thank you to some of you, who have been working behind the scenes.” The Committee is to be chaired by a retired Permanent Secretary and Head of Service in the old Oyo State, Adebisi Adesola. Other members are John Onaola Ajibola; S.T. Adeleye and Olutoyin Akanmu; representatives of Ministries, Departments and Agencies; Permanent Secretary, Civil Service Commission, Mrs. Eyitayo Adejoke; Accountant-General, K.G. Bello; Permanent Secretary, Local Government Service Commission; Akin Funmilayo; Permanent Secretary, House of Assembly Service Commission, O.O. Akinlade. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Establishments and Training, Mrs. Oluyemisi Adebusuyi; Solicitor-General/Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice; Mrs. Evelyn Akintunde; representatives of the Office of the Auditor-General for Local Governments, Office of the State Auditor-General; Director of Administration and Supplies at TESCOM and Public Corporations Commission; representatives of Labour Unions are also members of the Committee. Members of the Secretariat include, Director, Establishments Matters, Ministry of Establishments and Training; Director, Administration and General Services, Local Government Service Commission; Director, Personnel, Civil Service Commission; Director, Service Matters, Office of the Head of Service; Director, Employee Mobility, Relations and Planning, Office of the Head of Service; representative of the Office of the Head of Service and two representatives of Deloitte and Touche Consulting, Beulah Adeoye and Adeniyi Akintade.