First Lady, Aisha Buhari, has given what appears to be a tacit support to the claim by Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, that certain “elements” in Aso Rock are working against of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu. El-Rufai claimed on a live television programme on Wednesday morning that certain elements in the seat of power whose prefered aspirant lost the party’s presidential primary are still bitter and working relentlessly to ensure that the strong man of Lagos politics doesn’t win the February 25 presidential poll. Few hours after the bombshell by El-Rufai, the wife of the President uploaded the video of the media event on Instagram on Wednesday, and tageged it “#longlivethefederalrepublicofnigeria”. Aisha Buhari leads Tinubu’s women campaign train The Kaduna State Governor claimed that the unnamed individuals are now hiding behind President Buhari to execute their self-serving interests. In his words: “I believe there are elements in the villa who want us to lose the election because they didn’t get their way; they had their candidate. Their candidate did not win the primaries. “They are trying to get us to lose the election, and they are hiding behind the president’s desire to do what he thinks is right “I will give two examples: this petroleum subsidy, which is costing the country trillions of Naira, was something that we all agreed would be removed. “In fact, I had a discussion with the president and showed him why it had to go. Because how can you have a capital budget of N200b for federal roads and then spend N2 Trillion on petroleum subsidy? This was a conversation I had with the president in 2021 when the subsidy thing started rising. He was convinced. We left. It changed. Everyone in the government agreed, and it changed. “The second example I will give is this currency redesign. You have to understand the president. People are blaming the Governor of the Central Bank for the currency redesign, but No. ‘’You have to go back and look at the first outing of Buhari as president. He did this; the Buhari, Idiagbon regime changed our currency and did it in secrecy with a view to catching those that are stashing away illicit funds. It is a very good intention. The President has his right. But doing it at this time within the allotted time does not make any political or economic sense,” he stated.