The Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has disclosed that his administration had commenced modalities towards turning the moribund Gateway Hotel, Ota to a Five-Star hotel as all legal issues concerning it have been resolved. Abiodun made this disclosure at a meeting with the Ota Traditional Council, led by the Olota of Ota, Oba Abdulkabir Obalanlege, at the Olota’s Palace. The meeting was part of his campaign tour of Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area. According to the governor, “there were some legal issues concerning the Gateway Hotel, Ota. As you are all aware, the hotel, abandoned for so many years, has become a den for thieves. We have resolved contending issues about that hotel and we are working to bring it to a Five-Star hotel.” He described the local government as one the most important ones in the state as it is the industrial hub not only of the state, but the nation. Abiodun further acknowledged the LGA as one of the biggest food baskets of the state. He expressed delight with the number of good roads in the town which he noted was a departure from what was obtained in the past, saying that the Toll Gate section of the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta road which was in deplorable condition is now free of traffic. The governor, while noting that there were other roads that need government attention, emphasized that some roads have been constructed and commissioned, while others are under construction in the town. He called for the support of the traditional rulers and their subjects in the coming elections, assuring that he would take action on their demands in his second term in office. Responding to some demands from the Olota, Governor Abiodun said that a drainage system would be constructed to address the problem of erosion, adding that though his administration had constructed over 400 kilometres of roads across the state, a lot are still needed to be done to bridge the huge infrastructural gap. He informed the Council that his administration was taking a look at the issue of coronet Obas with a view to upgrading those who are impacting positivity on their communities, just as the issues of Baales have been taken care of. While thanking the Olota and other traditional rulers for maintaining peace in their various domains, the governor noted that “this has helped in fast-tracking development in the town and its environs.” Speaking earlier, the Olota had called for the revitalisation of the Gateway Hotel to further develop tourism which is gradually nosediving while facilities at the state hospital, should be improved to meet the health needs of indigenes and residents of the town. The monarch equally drew the attention of the state government to the ecological challenges facing the town as well as the need for the government to build more housing estates to accommodate the large population of the town. While calling for the creation of Awori Traditional Council, Oba Obalanlege called for the appointment of more indigenes of the town into government, assuring the governor of the highest votes from the area in the coming elections.