The Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has called on the people of the state not to allow primitive sentiments to cause division among them but continue in the communal love and co-existence that transverse all parts of Ogun. Abiodun who spoke as a Special Guest of Honour at this year’s Lisabi Celebration held at the Alake Palace Ground, Abeokuta, on Saturday, said it was imperative for the people reawake the spirit of love, selflessness, patriotism and nationalism as exemplified by Lisabi. The governor noted that Ogun is made up of different people who have lived together as one, saying the pride of the people lies in their culture. “This celebration affords us the opportunity to reawaken the Lisabi in us. It should reawake the spirit of selflessness, patriotism and nationalism that Lisabi represented. We must be a leading light in all that we do by not allowing primitive, primordial or decisive sentiments that diminish the bond that defines us. “The celebration is the symbolic demonstration of a communal love, peaceful co-existence that transverse Egba community. This is the demonstration of the people’s collective commitment to the development of their homestead”, he emphasized. Lisabi, the governor noted, is the celebration of history in its finest form and a memorial of the legend who emancipated his people from oppression and destruction. He said the annual celebration has metamorphosed into a unifying force that has become a cultural platform that brings all sons and daughters of Egbaland together for continued development. While noting that the state government policy on culture and tourism is based on cultural heritage, the governor said his administration is committed to the implementation of programmes that engender prosperity to everyone in the state. Abiodun emphasized that Egbaland has benefited from major projects executed across the State just as major roads such as Panseke-Adigbe, Elite, Olomore-Sanni and the 41 km Sagamu-Siun-Abeokuta roads were reconstructed, adding that the 250- bed hospital in Abeokuta is in the process of being taken over by AFREXIM Bank for completion. While assuring that Abeokuta would be given adequate attention to occupy its pride of place among the state capitals, the governor said of the five new fire stations built by the administration, three are located in the Ogun Central Senatorial District, adding that government is currently initiating the Kajola Dry Port project to encourage export activities in the state. In his welcome address, the Chairman, 2023 Lisabi Day celebration, Navy Captain Rasheed Raji (rtd) said the celebration is an opportunity to showcase the cultural heritage and bring all sons and daughters of Egbaland together to brainstorm and chat development course for the people. He described this year’s celebration as unique as all the four seasons of Egbaland have come together to plan for the event, stressing that the theme for this year is focused on effective ways parents could bring up their children to be useful to the society, submitting it was time for all and sundry to contribute to the development of the land. Highlights of the celebration included paying of homage by warlords to the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Michael Aremu Gbadebo and  displays by various towns and villages in Egbaland.