Governor Hope Uzodimma has challenged members of the Imo State Chapter of the National Peace Committee to find courage to confront the evil men and women sponsoring violence and insecurity in the State. Addressing the Committee members who paid him a working visit at the New Executive Council Chambers Government House Owerri, on Tuesday, Governor Uzodimma advised them to take it as a responsibility to ensure the restoration of peace anchored on justice, noting that his government will support and give them the necessary logistics that will make their job easy. He commended the activities of the National Peace Committee established in 2014 and helped to ensure that the 2015 election which was greeted with tension and volatility turned out to be relatively peaceful. The Governor said he welcomes the idea of extending the Peace Committee to the States, noting that ‘’any responsible Government will quickly welcome the Committee for peace and development to thrive.” He reassured of the support of the State Government, saying that “the inauguration of the Peace Committee is a sign of hope and encouragement as well as support to the efforts of the Clergy in preaching peace.” He  also expressed satisfaction with the calibre of membership of the Committee which he said are capable of delivering on their mandate. The Governor reminded the Committee  that there is silent war in Imo State, orchestrated by those who lost elections and therefore swore to “make the State ungovernable,” reiterating that though he was privileged to know those sponsoring the violence in Imo  and causing mayhem everywhere, but his covenant with God has made him to look up to God for vengeance. However, he was emphatic that “No man will get power in Imo State by killing his people because Imo people are in the hands of God.’’ He then wished the Committee the best as the members go about their responsibilities. Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee in the State, Rev. Fr. (Prof.) Philip Ogbonna said they came to inform Governor Uzodimma that the National Peace Committee Imo State Chapter had since been inaugurated in Imo State on November 7, 2022 and to request that the Governor gives them the necessary support and logistics to fulfill their mandate. He said they have also resolved to partner with the State Government and to “support the Federal, State and Local Government on this initiative to bring peace before, during and after the elections.” Rev. Fr. Ogbonna addeed that members have resolved to work to stop the unwarranted destructions, terrorism and killings in the State which are to nobody’s gains, and acknowledged that “in Imo State things have gone bad” and that “most conflicts and crisis in the State are aimed at pursing self interest.” He said they have resolved as a Committee to ensure peace through consultations and dialogue and affirmed that “peace is achievable by continually seeking solutions to peace.” Adding his voice, the Chairman of CAN Imo State, Very Rev. Eches Divine Eches recalled how Governor Uzodimma has been described at many fora as “a man of humility and peace” and said that it is on that pedestal that they “stand to be part of the National Peace Committee, knowing full well that the Governor, leading the way, the Committee is bound to succeed.” The Deputy Governor, Placid Njoku, the Secretary to State Government, Cosmas Iwu, the Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie and members of the State Executive Council, attended the event with the Governor.