The people of Imasayi-Yewa in Yewa North Local Government area of Ogun State have enjoined political parties and their members in the area to conduct their political activities in peaceful and purposeful manners. The people also called on youths in the land to eschew all forms of violence and work together for the progress and development of the ancient town. These were parts of the resolutions at the end of a meeting which was attended recently by critical stakeholders in Imasayi-Yewa. The meeting was chaired by the convener, Oba Lukman Olalekan Adeleke Kuoye, Kofoworade Oyesokun V, the Olu of Imasayi-Yewa. They agreed at the meeting that the forthcoming 2023 general elections shall be conducted throughout Imasayi-Yewaland in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility. The meeting commended the patriotic zeal of the Olu of Imasayi-Yewa for packaging such a superlative sensitization programme with an intimidating turnout. Stakeholders agreed that the turnout was a reflection of the traditional ruler’s sound educational and excellent social exposure that will help to sustain a relative peace and safety of lives and properties before, during and after the elections. “The meeting resolved that the Imasayi-Yewa people are an indivisible family and will continue to see themselves as such. “All the political party members in Imasayi-Yewa shall conduct their political activities in a peaceful and purposeful manner. “The Imasayi-Yewa youths shall eschew all forms of violence and will rather work together for the progress and the development of the ancient town. “The forthcoming 2023 general elections shall be conducted throughout Imasayi-Yewaland in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility. “Political thuggery and hooliganism are old and faded fashion of politics which will not be condoned in Imasayi-Yewa and her environments. “The peace being enjoyed in Imasayi-Yewa and her environments now and before elections shall be sustained after the elections as there is life after the elections. “There shall be no destruction of lives and properties in Imasayi-Yewa before, during and after the elections. “Any person(s) that decide to get involved in any form of political or criminal activities shall be handed over to the law enforcement agencies. “The entire attendees have unanimously agreed that Imasayi-Yewa shall remain a land of peace and shall continue to witness developments in all spheres.” The meeting was attended by critical stakeholders in Imasayi-Yewa and her environments including the youths from all the youth bases, market men and women, housewives, students of Oluaso High School, Imasayi-Yewa and their teachers, artisans, leaders of Christian Association, Imasayi-Yewa Muslim leaders and leaders of traditional worshippers, Baales and Chiefs, political party leaders of the All Progressives Congress; People’s Democratic Party; African Democratic Congress and the Labour Party. The resource persons at the event also included the Ogun State chairman of the National Youth Council of Nigeria AbdulJabar Ayelaagbe; Chairman, Yewa People Development Council, Yewa North Chapter, LOGOCHAP, Elder Adeogun Israel; Associate Prof. Oluranti Samuel of Department of Sociology, Faculty of Social Sciences, Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos State; Bode Akiode, Community Relations officer, Dangote Cement, Plc, Ibese Plant. The Police Area Commander, Ayetoro was represented by the DPO, Ayetoro; DPO Imasayi-Yewa who was also represented by the DCO, Imasayi-Yewa; VGN and the local hunters.