As Nigerians commemorate the 47th anniversary of the death of former Head of State, late General Murtala Muhammed, the need for decisive leadership as the country prepares for the general elections in a fortnight, has been stressed. The late Head of State, on the 13th of February, 1976, paid the highest price for service to the country with his life, and the Murtala Muhammed Foundation (MMF) set up to keep his legacy alive, says, this year’s anniversary would be dedicated to his philosophy, in the spirit of the general elections. In statement issued on Monday, upon her return from Kano, the birth home of the late head of state, the Chief Executive Officer of MMF, Dr. Aisha Muhammed-Oyebode disclosed that General Muhammed’s regime birthed the transition to a democratic rule which was brought to fruition by his successor. According to her: “The greatest gift for late Head of State’s 47th memorial anniversary is to ensure a smooth transition through free and fair general elections on February 25, 2023, to decisive governance, empathetic leadership that has the interest of the masses at heart.” The CEO of MMF emphasized that, “the nation is at a fragile crossroads, and indeed the focus of this year’s memorial was prayers at General Muhammed’s graveside, for the elections to usher in the type of governance envisioned by Murtala Muhammed and his team. “During his brief tenure in power, the late General’s administration prevailed in the battle against indiscipline, while also creating the institutions that would engender nationalism and sustainable peace and security within Nigeria’s borders.” “General Muhammed’s administration fought corruption to a standstill and began the process of moving the federal capital to Abuja, addressed the issue of bureaucratic inefficiency, and, most importantly, initiated the process for a return to civilian rule. ” He undoubtedly held a great belief in the existence of a powerful and vibrant Nigeria within an independent, yet united, and affluent Africa. Unquestionably a belief that Nigerians can replicate in their voting choices in the upcoming general elections,” Muhammed Oyebode stated.