TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Nigeria Labour Congress has declared its support for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, ahead of Saturday’s presidential election and also urged all Nigerians to vote the former governor of Anambra State. In a statement to endorse Obi’s candidacy dated Wednesday, February 22, 2023 and titled, ‘The Elections are Here – Support the Labour Party’ signed by the National Secretary, National Political Commission of the congress, Chris Uyot, NLC asked Nigerian workers to also vote all other candidates presented by LP for other public offices. The decision to support Obi and the entire LP structure was made at an inaugural meeting held on Wednesday by the congress’ National Administrative Council. Recall that the organised labour, comprising the NLC and Trade Union Congress, had recently in Abuja, declared its support for the Labour Party in separate speeches made by their presidents at the 10th-anniversary lecture in honour of the labour veteran, the late Comrade Pascal Bayau. The former NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, had said that Obi is among the finest Nigerian and the first presidential candidate of LP to be recognised by the Labour Centre. He said that the NLC will fully mobilise to ensure the victory of the party in the 2023 general elections. Also, on Monday, the African Democratic Congress collapsed its structures to endorse Obi for president. Restating its endorsement of Obi, NLC noted that the forthcoming polls offered an opportunity to transform the nation’s political, social and economic policy direction to be people’s-oriented as espoused in the Workers Charter of Demands. “We wish to refer to the resolution of the inaugural meeting of the NAC of the NLC directing workers and indeed all Nigerians to come out en masse to perform their civic duties by voting in the forthcoming elections and taking decisive steps to safeguard their votes. “The NLC had also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to ensure that the electoral processes are not only transparent and fair but reflect the wishes of the Nigerian people. “This is a clarion call to all workers and working people that as we approach the final push towards the forthcoming presidential election come February 25, 2023, we should ensure a massive turnout of votes for the success of the Labour Party in line with an earlier resolution of the National Executive Council,” the statement reads in part. NLC added that all Labour Political Committee members in the states are to intensify their work in mobilising workers and the Nigerian people both at the local, ward and polling units to vote for Obi and all candidates of LP in the National Assembly. It however maintained that the political committees are also enjoined to work with their allies in civil society organisations and students to take all necessary steps to safeguard the people’s votes by ensuring that the electoral process is transparent, free and fair. “To accomplish these significant tasks to save our democracy, all affiliate unions and state Councils of Congress are to give maximum cooperation and support to the political committees to strengthen their work at the state, local government, wards and polling unit levels by ensuring that they provide at least 10 ward coordinators and canvassers to not only mobilise but defend the people’s votes. “History beckons. This election promises to be the most decisive in our country,” NLC noted.