President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of a 22-member Presidential Transition Council to ensure a smooth handover after the election of a new president later in the year. This is contained in a statement signed on Thursday by Willie Bassey, Director, Information, on behalf of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation He said the council will be chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. Other members of the council are the: Head of the Civil Service of the Federation Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice National Security Adviser Chief of Defence Staff Inspector-General of Police Director General, National Intelligence Agency Director General, State Security Services Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court of Nigeria; They will be joined by the Permanent Secretaries from the ministries of: Defence Interior Finance, Budget, and National Planning Foreign Affairs Information and Culture As well as the Permanent Secretaries from the: Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Office of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs Cabinet Affairs Office Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation; the General Services Office Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation; the Economic and Political Affairs Office Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation The State House. The candidate who wins the 2023 Presidential Election will nominate two representatives to the council. The Transition Council will be inaugurated by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on Tuesday 14 February at noon at the Conference Hall of the SGF. Members are expected to attend the inauguration in person. President Buhari also signed Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 on Thursday for the facilitation and management of presidential transitions. Also, the President has signed the Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 on the Facilitation and Management of the Presidential Transitions. “A key feature of the Presidential Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 is the institutionalization of a legal framework that would enable a seamless transition of power from one Presidential Administration to another which is part of President Buhari’s legacy,” Bassey added.