BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State, Garba Aliyu, has stressed that the provisions of the Electoral Act, prohibits non-state actors, especially Ebubeagu, the South East security outfit, from participating in electioneering processes. Aliyu made the clarification during a meeting with political party stakeholders, Local Government Chairmen, Directors General of Campaign Councils of various political parties held Abakaliki. He said that the provision of the Electoral Act 2022, Section 91, expressly provided that only the security agencies shall have a role to play in the electioneering process as it relates to the conduct of political rallies and procession. “Therefore, no Local Government Chairman or political party stakeholders should engage the Ebubeagu bearing arms of whatever caliber for whatsoever reason, as Ebubeagu are not created for their political aggrandizement rather they are to strengthen security of the state as non-state actors.” Aliyu warned that anyone who goes contrary to the provision of the extant laws shall be arrested and prosecuted accordingly. “The import of the above provision of the Electoral Act 2022, expressly prohibits non-state actors especially Ebubeagu to participate in electioneering process in whatever capacity. The South East security outfit (Ebubeagu), has no role in electioneering campaigns and they are not created for any political purposes,” the police boss warned. According to him, “the meeting was convened in line with Section 91 (5), (6) of the Electoral Act 2022 as amended, to brainstorm on election security matters in the context. “The Commissioner of Police in each state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, shall provide adequate security for proper and peaceful conduct of political rallies and processions in their respective jurisdictions. All these strategies become indelible form proper synergy with critical stakeholder and the government in order to achieve conducive election process,” he stressed. Speaking against the backdrop of campaigns by political parties, Aliyu emphasized that all political parties have the right to campaign across the state. “Generally speaking, all political parties have the right to campaign and conduct their rallies in accordance with the stipulations of the law devoid of breakdown of law and order in the state. “I urge you all as critical stakeholders in the general election, to mobilize and campaign to the electorate, in an orderly manner so as to avoid infringement on fundamental rights of the residents,” he said. Aliyu, however, enjoined political parties to engage in political rallies within a designated venue. “If a political party elects to hold a political rally in a specific venue which is a government/public facility, the political party must apply to the Council Chairman of the jurisdiction for permission to make use of such venue. “In the event the Council Chairman refused or declined his permission, such a party can notify the Commissioner of Police for onward communication of the same to the Governor who is the Chief Security Officer of the state for his approval. “Campaign Directors of various political parties are to draw their campaign itineraries to avoid late night campaigns and clashes with other political campaign rallies. The DGs should therefore endeavour to inform the police and other security agencies at least 24 hours before the time for security coverage,” Aliyu noted. He warned that the recruitment of thugs and hoodlums﻿﻿﻿ will not be tolerated in the electioneering process. “All of you are stakeholders in the electioneering process and I urge you all to see yourselves as agents of peace and not instigators of violence,” he stressed.