The People’s Democratic Party has expelled the former governor of Enugu State, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, and six others over alleged anti-party activities. Senator Nnamani and the others were last month suspended by the party. Some were forgiven and reinstated. In a series of tweets on Friday evening, National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, said “The National Working Committee (NWC) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at its 566th meeting today, Friday, February 10, 2023, approved the expulsion of the following individuals from the Party for anti-party activities and other grave offences in violation of the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017).” He then listed those affected as Senator Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu State);  Hon. Chris Ogbu (Imo State); Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji (Ekiti Central); Olayinka James Olalere (Ekiti Central II); Fayose Oluwajomiloju John (Ekiti Central I); Akerele Oluyinka (Ekiti North I) and Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti South II) According to the party, the expulsion takes effect from Friday, February 10, 2023. Ologunagba added that “The decision of the NWC is sequel to the recommendation of the National Disciplinary Committee and pursuant to Sections 58 and 59 (1)(g) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). “The PDP charges all members of our Party across the country to remain united and focused on the mission of our Party to Rescue, Rebuild and Redirect our nation from misrule,” he tweeted. Nnamani had just a few days ago doubled down on his promise to support the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu in the general election billed to start on February 25. In justifying his action, Nnamani accused the national leadership of the PDP of not doing fidelity to its own Constitution. He accused the party leadership of subverting the rotational principle for which the party was famous by allowing the presidential candidate and the national chairman of the party to come from the same zone of the country without doing anything to remedy it. It is the same allegation that the G5 Governors led by Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, also accused the party of.