Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has failed to deliver his Polling Unit at Ward 3, Unit 002, Ita Osanyin, Iperu, Ikenne Local Government Area of the state, for a former governor of the state, Gbenga Daniel, who is vying for a seat in the National Assembly. He, however, delivered his Polling Unit for the APC presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. After a four-hour voting exercise that experienced delay at the onset, the Presiding Officer of the Independent National Electoral Commission, after attending to the last electorate, officially ended the voting exercise. Thereafter, the Presiding Officer, who is a female corps member, and her colleagues, sorted the votes and counted it in the presence of the electorates who closely monitored their votes. Around 5.20pm, the Presiding Officer announced the results. Among the total votes cast for the president, she said the APC polled 118 votes; the PDP polled 108 votes, the Labour Party polled five votes and the ADC polled one vote. A total of seven votes were void in the keenly contested elections. For the Ogun East Senatorial District, the Presiding Officer said the APC polled 113 votes; the PDP polled 119 votes, the Labour Party polled five votes, while three votes were not valid. Political observers, however, believed that the outcome of the election has finally confirmed the crack between the two APC leaders in the state. Some of them argued that it was impossible for Tinubu to have won the governor’s polling unit and Gbenga Daniel lost the same election. For the Remo North Federal Constituency, the Presiding Officer also said the APC polled 112 votes; the PDP 119 polled votes, the Labour Party polled five votes, while four votes were void. Supporters of the PDP have been jubilating after the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, defeated Tinubu at Ward 3, Polling Unit 003, Iregun, in Iperu, Ikenne LGA. The polling unit is a stone’s throw away from Abiodun’s polling unit Ita Osanyin, Iperu, Ikenne LGA. Among the total votes cast for the president, the Presiding Officer said the APC polled 117 votes; the PDP polled 133 votes, the Labour Party polled four votes, the ADC polled one vote, while a total of 10 votes were not valid. For the Ogun East Senatorial District, the Presiding Officer said the APC polled 113 votes; the PDP polled 140 votes, the Labour Party polled one vote, the NRM polled one vote, while a total of 10 votes were not valid. For the Remo North Federal Constituency, the APC polled 110 votes; the PDP polled 147 votes, the Labour Party polled two votes while other parties including the votes that were not valid were six.