A member of the Integrity Group and Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has declared that the people of the state will vote for a presidential candidate whose election will promote equity, justice and unity in Nigeria. The governor spoke on Thursday when he received the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, who paid a courtesy call on him on the sidelines of the party’s campaign rally in Ibadan, Oyo State capital. He urged Tinubu to feel free to campaign in the state, saying everything has been done to ensure the event is peaceful and hitch-free. He said his administration believes in putting people first, stating that “political players will come and go, but the country will remain.” Speaking on the position of the G-5 and the challenges rocking the leadership of the People’s Democratic Party, Makinde said “If they have to choose between their individual aspiration and the unity of the country, they will choose Nigeria’s unity.” He stated that the Integrity Group monitored the APC presidential primary that produced the former Lagos State governor as a candidate, and commended the position taken by the Northern governors. “There has to be inclusiveness by all sections of the country in power-sharing if the country must progress. “If the country does not survive, how can anyone aspire to be anything in that country,” he said. While thanking Makinde for the warm reception, Tinubu explained that he came to accord him the respect that he deserves as the chief executive of the state. “I cannot come to Oyo State to campaign for votes without visiting you to pay my respect to you as a governor, leader and an Omoluabi.” After his visit, the APC campaign train met with some traditional rulers from the South West zone before proceeding to Mapo Hall where a mammoth crowd had waited for them to address the rally. The APC candidate was accompanied by Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, former APC Interim Chairman, Bisi Akande; former Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi; APC National Woman Leader, Betta Edu; Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare; Senator Dayo Adeyeye and Senator Soji Akanbi, among others. In another development, a Benue High Court has issued an order of interim injunction, restraining the People’s Democratic Party, its National Working Committee, National Executive Committee, or its National Officers (elected or appointed) from expelling Benue Governor Samuel Ortom. Justice A. I Itoyonyiman issued the order on Thursday following a suit with number MHC/46/2023 which was brought before the court on Wednesday, February 16, 2023. Ortom is the Plaintiff/Applicant while the PDP and Independent National Electoral Commission are first and second Defendants/ Respondents respectively. The matter has been slated for a hearing on February 24, 2023.