BY FESTUS OKOROMADU For his immense contributions to the growth of banking and finance in Nigeria and across Africa, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Oliver Alawuba, was on Saturday, conferred with an Honorary Doctorate Degree in Banking and Finance by the Imo State University Owerri, Nigeria. Alawuba was honoured during the school’s eighth convocation ceremony, an event witnessed by the Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodimma. Also in attendance were the former Governor of the State, Rochas Okorocha, the University’s ProChancellor, Chief Sir, Ernest Nwapa; Vice-Chancellor Professor U.U. Chukwumaeze, Vice-chancellors from various tertiary institutions in Nigeria, captains of industries and a host of stakeholders. While congratulating Alawuba, Chukwumaeze pointed out that the conferment is in recognition of his (Alawuba) contribution to redefining Public Sector Banking in Nigeria and across Africa. “The honour is in recognition of your numerous contributions to the financial sector in Nigeria and Africa and as one of the major drivers who contributed to taking modern banking to all state capitals and major cities in Nigeria where hitherto most banks primarily concentrated on the major commercial centres of the country,” Professor Chukwumaeze stated. Speaking after receiving the recognition, Alawuba expressed his appreciation to the leadership of the University for the honour extended to him, just as he attributed his success to God and hard work. He took time out to encourage the students to stay focused and diligent whilst congratulating other fellow awardees. Alawuba said. “I am grateful to the management of IMSU for the honour and recognition, and I want to thank the amiable governor, the VC and other top executives of this great institution for the honour that you have shown me today.
I promise that I will continue to do my best to make this school and indeed the indigenes of this great state proud. I also seize this opportunity to advise the young ones to be focused and put their best in their studies, so that one day they will also be recognised globally.” Other awardees of the honorary Doctorate Degree included the former Governor of Anambra State, Dame (Dr) Virgy Ngozi Etiaba; Chief Chika Emenike, CEO of Tummy Tummy Noodles, Chitec Motors Limited, and Kotec Group of Companies; and Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board. Alawuba is a seasoned banking professional with over 25 years of work experience. He has a broad range of strategic and well-grounded experience in Corporate and Institutional Banking, Consumer Banking, Public Sector, Retail and Commercial Banking, Project Management, Corporate Governance, and overall bank management.