BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A choirmaster, Elder Oji Udu Agha, slumped and died on Sunday while leading ministration at St Peter’s Cathedral, Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, kpirikpiri Abakaliki Ebonyi State. The choirmaster’s death at the climax of the Church’s second service on February 5, 2023 led to sudden mood swings from praises, dancing to uncontrollable general weeping and radical prayers by members. The middle-aged man, a native of Amosu Eddah, Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, slumped and died on Sunday during church service and was confirmed dead at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. A source in the Church who did not want his name in print, said the deceased had been battling with High blood pressure for some time. He described the late Orji as a dedicated member and worker. “We were all in the church when the unfortunate incident happened. He came to church without any sign of ill-health. He conducted the choir ministration of in the first service, though he wasn’t at his best. During the second service ministration, while he was conducting the choir, it was observed that he couldn’t lift his hands at a point, but before we realised what was happening, he slumped and was immediately rushed to the hospital. “Church members waited earnestly for him to be revived but to no avail. The prayer team prayed believing that God will restore him but, at the end, the doctors confirmed him dead,” he narrated. The Parish Minister, Rev Torty Onoh in a statement titled “Passage of Our Choirmaster!” confirmed that he slumped in the church and died subsequently in the hospital. Onoh said, “Beloved of God. We are sad to inform you of the shocking passage of our dear Choirmaster, Elder Oji Udu Agha Oji, who slumped in Church while conducting the choir and was later confirmed dead in hospital yesterday. May the Lord give you all the grace to bear the news of his departure as you continue to pray for his dear wife, family and relations for comfort, healing and strength in Jesus name. We thank God for his life of humble and dedicated service. May his humble and dedicated soul rest in the bosom of the Lord.”