BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Nigeria Customs Service intercepted 450 drums of calcium carbide enroute Aba in Abia State from Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State in January. The Customs Area Controller in charge of the Federal Operations Unit Zone A, Ikeja, Hussein Ejibunnu, while addressing journalists at the unit on Wednesday, said that the explosives weighed 106kilograms each. He also said the explosives had a duty-paid value of N24m. Ejibunnu however said the DPV of the seized goods within the period under review is N517m while N86m was recovered as revenue into the federation account through the issuance of demand notices for underpaid Customs duties. The Customs Zone A boss stated that the consignments are still under detention pending when the importer provides the necessary documents. “This is calcium carbade about 450 drums weighing 106kg each with street value of N24m. The status of this is still under detention because the owner said he has an end-user certificate for it so we are waiting for the presentation of the EUC. It was intercepted at Ijebu-Ode on its way to Aba.” The Custom boss said the failure of the importer to produce the EUC within the time frame, the service won’t have any other choice than to do what the law says, “and we have to prosecute the person.” He however added that they arrested a suspect in connection with the explosives. According to him, “It is important we note that this is part of the bye products for making bombs and with our eagle-eyed officers it is important to note that we have to be going after these things especially those that are under restrictions that some people will use the opportunity to bring them in.” “We have a time frame within 30 days we have a suspect with us, let him get us the necessary documents and as soon as he gets the documents then no problem.” Ejibunnu, however, said within the period under review, the unit seized 68 pieces of military camouflage. “Eleven suspects were arrested in connection with some of the wares, while the Federal High Court had convicted three people for the crime of smuggling.” Ejibunnu said the unit intercepted 2,135 wraps of Indian hemp weighing 1,163kg. “Within the period under review, the command also seized 5,481 bags of foreign parboiled rice of 50kg each which is equivalent to over nine trailer loads, 47,750 litres of premium motor spirit, 68 pieces of military camouflage, 314 pieces of used tyres, 11 units of used motorcycles, 13 units of used vehicles,” he explained. He said the goods were intercepted along the border corridors of the South West. Ejibunnu however handed over the seized cannabis sativa to an official of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. Speaking after receiving the contrabands, an Assistant Commandant, Narcotics, Moshood Aluko, said the agency would do its best to cover up the black spots that aids these consignments in coming into the country. “From what the Controller said there is a black spot everywhere we have to start, track and educate them. The volume is too much and we don’t expect much to be in circulation. We are grateful to Customs if not if this size of cannabis is found in the system it is not good, it can lead to mental disorders. You know in fighting drug abuse and menace a lot of stakeholders are involved,” he said.