Governor Hope Uzodimma has got the nod of the Government of Imo State to complete ongoing signature projects initiated by his administration, particularly the roads. At the weekly Executive Council meeting held on Wednesday, February 8, 2023 the members gave approval to the Governor to utilize N22 billion, being money that the Federal Government owed the State from the 13 per cent derivation which she has agreed to pay, to urgently tackle the ongoing signature projects across the state. Given that the money is to be paid in tranches by the Federal Government, the Executive Council resolved that First Bank which has agreed to provide the government with the said sum should be approached immediately so that nothing hinders the timely completion of the ongoing critical roads such as Owerri–Mbaise- Umuahia road, Orlu- Mgbee-Akokwa-Uga road and the Oguta-Okporo road. Addressing reporters at the end of the meeting, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba said that the Ministry of Digital Economy and E-Government has also recorded some commendable feats with some of the newly trained graduates from the Skill-Up Imo Project already being recruited by employers in their good numbers. Emelumba said that “the money to be sourced from First Bank is not a loan, but discounted facility from the First Bank needed by the State Government to complete her outstanding signature projects mostly on road infrastructure which include Owerri/Mbaise/Umuahia road, Oguta/Okporo road and Orlu/ Mgbee/Akaokwa/ Uga road.” Emelumba said report made available to the Executive Council indicated that over 200 of the graduates have already been offered employment by some Hi-tech companies like Konga, among others. “This shows that the programme is receiving world attention and producing the right skills required by our youths,” he said. The Commissioner also informed that on February 14, 2023 the government and people of Imo State will have the opportunity to host President Muhammadu Buhari again for the fourth time, as he visits with the presidential candidate of APC, Ahmed Bola Tinubu and all APC leaders, for the South East mega rally of the party holding in Owerri. “This is a mark of the President’s love for Imo State as Imo is the only state of Southern Nigeria where he will be physically present for the APC presidential campaign rally,” Emelumba noted. Emelumba was flanked by the Commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Rabbi Ibrahim, the Chief Political Adviser/Head Political Bureau, Enyinna Onuegbu and the Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser to the Governor, Oguwike Nwachuku. “Furthermore, Council said that the Governor set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee comprising Ministry of Humanitarian and Disaster Management, that of Public Orientation and Religious Affairs, Ministry of Women Affairs and Vulnerable Groups and the Chief Political Adviser/Head Political Bureau as members, to assist the Ministry Humanitarian Affairs in organizing the programme called ‘’Government Enterprises Empowerment Programme, to help our people register and maximize benefits of the programme from the Federal Government.” Also Council informed that Imo State Government is to benefit yet another $11.1 million from State Fiscal Transparency and Accountability and Sustainability Programmes for total compliance in the year 2022 budget. The Commissioner emphasized that “Imo State since inception of the present administration has gotten over $40 million from the World Bank on the SFTAS,” and that “it is the highest measure and indices of transparency and accountability there for the people to see.” He then challenged any other state in the South East that has made such a mark to show up, noting that the administration of Governor Uzodimma that thrives on accountability and transparency discovered the process and has cued into it while past administrations never achieved such. Meanwhile, Governor Uzodimma has congratulated the newly elected President of the Nigerian Labour Congress, Joe Ajaero, saying he has joined the many sons and daughters of Imo who have made the state proud. Ajaero, the Deputy National President of NLC since 2011, was returned unopposed Wednesday morning by his colleagues at the 13th National Delegates Conference of the Nigerian Labour Congress in Abuja. He succeeds Ayuba Wabba whose tenure elapsed same as day, February 8, 2023. A statement by Oguwike Nwachuku, the Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser to Governor Uzodimma said his principal noted with pride that Ajaero’s emergence has once more shown that Imo State is made up of citizens that can be trusted with higher national and international assignments. The Governor was particularly elated that Ajaero emerged unopposed, as a consensus candidate, an indication that his colleagues have invested so much trust in him. In congratulating Ajaero, Governor Uzodimma said he has no iota of doubt that his leadership of the NLC will help to galvanize national progress and development, and that through partnership with government that lasts, Labour under his watch will render service to humanity and God. The Governor who also congratulated the delegates for conducting a peaceful conference said Ajaero’s victory is a victory for Nigerian workers who believe so much in his capacity as their President to lead them to the Promised Land. Ajaero, a former Secretary General of the National Union of Electricity Employees hails from Emekeuku in Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State.