Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, on Monday, took his re-election campaign to Oluyole and Ido Local Government Areas of the state, ahead of the general election starting on February 25. The governor noted that his administration has delivered on his promises to the people of the state across the four pillars of his administration, adding that the government would up the ante of performance under Omituntun 2.0. While flagging off the 4.7 kilometres Odo-Ona Kekere-Arapaja-Asunle Road in Oluyole Local Government, Governor Makinde stated that his administration has ensured that communities are involved in his administration’s development efforts both at the state and local levels. Governor Makinde added that his administration has ensured an all-round development of the state in the last 44 months and has ensured it got value for its money on all projects. He said that under Omituntun 2.0, more developments will also come to Ido LG, which according to him, straddles Akinyele and Oluyole Local Governments, a major economic hub of the state, which have the ongoing Gas Infrastructure Project and 110 kilometres Ibadan Circular Road, the Dry Port, the Ilutuntun Business District, among others. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, on behalf of the Media Committee of Governor Makinde Campaign Council, indicated that the governor, while speaking during the flag-off of the road project, said that the road project will put an end to the lies that his administration has not paid attention to rural roads. He said: “For those residing at Odo Ona Kekere, Arapaja and Asunle communities, you know that Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja is our brother and he said it won’t augur well if the road within his community is not fixed in four years of our government, and we accepted. “That is why it is good to have a good leader. He did not come to us to demand anything personal for himself. He came and demanded that we fix the road to Arapaja. “I will proceed to flag this off so that development will also come to this axis and I can guarantee that we will get the value for the project, because in Oyo State today, it is all about value for money. Whatever the government is spending on, whether at the state or local government level, the communities are involved and we demand value for Oyo state money.” While speaking with the traditional council at the Oluyole Local Government Secretariat, the governor apologised for shifting campaigns in Oluyole Local Government before Monday, saying he did that so he could have enough time to interact with residents of the Council. He equally stated that on his way to the Council, he nearly cancelled the campaign again, as he saw Oyo State residents in their hundreds, queuing at banks and ATM points, berating the hardship Nigerians are going through at this time. He, however, encouraged residents of the state to continue to endure, saying: “I know how people are suffering, but sorrow may tarry for the night, joy cometh in the morning. Joy will come to Oyo State and to Nigeria.” The governor, who also met with the leadership of the Nigerian Union of Teachers, the Isese Community, the Physically-Challenged, Artisans and Market Men and Women in Oluyole Local Government, said his administration has delivered on his promises in health, education, security and economic expansion sectors. He also noted that as part of his achievements in the education sector, the 5,000 teachers recruited by his administration bested the records of any administration in the state, noting that contrary to the false information by the governorship candidate of the Accord Party, Adebayo Adelabu, that the previous administration recruited 5,300 teachers, he found out that that administration only recruited about 2,000 teachers and education officers. The governor said that if his government were to add the education officers it recruited, the figure would stand at 5,700. Speaking with the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria at the Power Pentecostal Church and the League of Imams and Alfas at the Olomi Central, the governor appreciated the religious leaders for their prayers and support, calling on them to support the People’s Democratic Party candidates in the National, State Assembly and governorship elections. From there, the governor moved to address a crowd of PDP supporters at the Olomi Junction. At Ido Local Government, Omi Adio, where the governor met with the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria, at its Secretariat in Oderemi Road, Ido Town, the governor solicited support for himself and the Oyo South Senatorial and Ibarapa East/Ido Federal Constituency candidates, Mogaji Olasunkanmi Tegbe and Hon. Yemi Taiwo. Speaking earlier, Bishop Daniel Oluwajumade, on behalf of Ido LG CAN, described the governor as a humble and unassuming leader, whose actions, he said, have brought great successes to the state. He said that the governor’s victory is assured. The governor also used the opportunity of the campaign in Ido to clarify why the PDP settled for Taiwo as its candidate in the Federal Constituency, saying: “The reason we have settled for our candidate here, Yemi Taiwo, is because, at the national level, I am fighting for fairness, justice and equity. So, because I have eventually become the governor of this state, I will do the right thing for our state. “This time around, don’t let them say it is the time for Ido LG. The time is coming and we are tactically arranging how the position of leadership should be shared. This 2023, let us give it to Hon. Taiwo and Ibarapa East. He lives in Ido originally but was only born in Ibarapa. So, please, even if they are sharing money and telling you all sorts of things, it is a sign of desperation. “Please, I want to urge you the stakeholders and gatekeepers in Ido to be supportive. “Saturday is the first election and I want you to deliver for the candidates of the party. For that of March 11, vote for your son, Mogaji, and I for my re-election. You know I am also your son.”