BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Osun State Command has asked residents of the state, especially voters, not to entertain fear in exercising their franchise as it has deployed 4, 520 personnel for Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. The State Commandant, Sunday Agboola said officers and men have been deployed to 3,763 polling units in the state, adding that personnel have also been deployed to 664 wards across the state. A statement issued on Thursday by ASCII Adeleke Kehinde, the Acting Public Relations Officer of the command, said eagle–eyed patrol teams had also been stationed in the three senatorial districts in the state for effective monitoring and to mitigate threats. ‘’The corps is engaging with other security agencies in the state. I want to urge  the good and law abiding citizens of Osun State not to entertain any  fear. The Inter-agency  Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) has fine tuned modalities to ensure that the coming elections are conducted to the admiration of all Nigerians. “Heads of security agencies in the state have had series of engagements; we have been able to map out strategies towards the success of the forthcoming general elections. Our collaboration is strong. Osun residents will perform their civic responsibilities in a peaceful atmosphere, without being harassed,” the statement quoted Agboola as saying. He, therefore, warned miscreants to desist from engaging in activities that may cause threats to peaceful atmosphere of 2023 general elections, as anyone caught would be dealt with according to the Electoral Law. Commandant Agboola noted that the recently passed Electoral Law, Part VII of the Electoral Act 2022 (as Amended) is devoted to electoral offences while Section 150 paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Act stipulate that an offence committed under the Act shall be triable. The Osun NSCDC boss assured electorate that his personnel would not violate the code of conduct expected of security personnel. While assuring the public of the integrity of personnel of NSCDC, he promised neutrality, respect for human rights and dignity in the discharge of this all-important national assignment. Agboola, who called for the support of all and sundry, said everyone must work towards the success of the general  elections. He wanted all hands to be on deck to ensure the elections is peaceful. “I want to assure you that NSCDC personnel will discharge their duties with high degree of professionalism for us to witness  free, fair and credible elections,” he reiterated. He urged electorate to report electoral cases and emergency matters before, during and after elections to the NSCDC on the following numbers; 08055555644 and 07041300031.