Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq came up for ovation in Isin local government area of the state as monarchs and community leaders commended the administration’s strides in the area. The Governor, meanwhile, has congratulated the Olusin of Isanlu-Isin and paramount ruler of Isinland Oba Solomon Olugbemiga Oloyede Atobatele II on his 14th anniversary as a monarch. The Governor spoke at the 14th anniversary in Isanlu-Isin, where he was given the title of Atunluse of Isanlu-isin, while the First Lady Ambassador Olufolake AbdulRazaq was coronated Yeye Atunluse of the kingdom. The event was attended by dignitaries from across the state, including cabinet members, TIC Chairman for Isin LG Hon. Tunde Timothy Fadipe; senior APC chieftains led by Alhaji Moshood Mustapha; first class monarchs led by the Olofa of Offa Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi Esuwoye II and Olupo of Ajase-Ipo Oba Ismail Yahya Alebiosu, and top industrialist Alhaji Kamorudeen Yusuf. Speaking on behalf of the community, the Olusin of Isanlu-Isin commended AbdulRazaq’s contributions to the growth of the state, particularly Isin land. He said the infrastructural projects the government has executed in Isin have turned around the community, assuring the Governor of their support and overwhelming votes at the polls. “Your Excellency, this 14th year coronation anniversary was organized to honour and appreciate your good performances, especially in Isin local government area in general and Isanlu-Isin in particular. This is evident in the field of education through comprehensive renovation of school buildings and supply of various modern educational materials,” he said. “For example, your government also comprehensively constructed a block of two classrooms at Baptist LGEA Primary School, Isanlu-Isin at the site of the first school building constructed in 1945. “Another block of six classrooms was renovated at Saint Joseph’s LGEA Primary School, Isanlu-Isin. To crown it all, your government also constructed an ICT centre of 25 system units at the same Saint Joseph’s LGEA Primary School, Isanlu-Isin. The centre is now operational. “Again, your government carried out a comprehensive renovation of the Dispensary and Maternity (Idi-Igba) Centre, Isanlu-Isin. This was supported with the full perimeter fencing of the health centre. The performances were also complemented by your administration with the provision of comprehensive delivery of health services, facilities, and drugs to health centres throughout Isin local government area.” Oba Oloyede said the administration has performed so well across the state and in Isin LG in particular, pledging that the people will cast their votes for the Governor and other APC candidates at the polls. Prince Shaibu Olanrewaju, who was the guest speaker at the event, said the state was until 2019 a mortuary of infrastructural wreckages and backlog of salary arrears for royal fathers. He urged the people of Isanlu-Isin and Kwara State to reciprocate the good gesture of Governor AbdulRazaq. AbdulRazaq, in his acceptance speech, promised that the administration will focus on agro processing in the coming years to deepen government’s investment in agriculture, especially cashew production and processing in Isin community, among other developmental projects. “We have done well, and in Sha Allaah, we count on your support to do better,” he said. “In terms of developmental efforts, we will continue to do more. We will work on the Oke-Onigbin – Isanlu-Isin road, among other requests.” The Governor thanked the Olusin of Isanlu-Isin for the title and congratulated him on his 14th coronation anniversary. “On behalf of the people and government of Kwara State, we wish you well. We also thank you for the peace in your domain. Working with the local government chairman, we have seen stability in Isanlu-Isin and across Isin local government area. This is due to your hard work and we commend you for that.”