BY DANIEL NWANKWO, ABAKALIKI Inspector Ibrahim Kudu, a Police Inspector who was shot on the chest on Thursday during an attack on the All Progressives Grand Alliance governorship candidate in Ebonyi State, Benard Odoh, has died at the Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, where he was receiving treatment. Also, the Campaign Council of APGA has announced the killing of one of its supporters identified as Elom Oscar, at Ohaukwu LGA of Ebonyi State. He was allegedly killed by suspected operatives of Ebubeagu Security outfit. The late Inspector Kudu, a native of Niger State, was working at Special Protection Unit, Base 4, Port Harcourt, before he was assigned to protect Odoh. The Point gathered that the late officer had demonstrated gallantry that led to the escape of Odoh during an alleged assassination attempt on him by yet to be identified gunmen on Thursday night. The slain officer was shot on his chest while trying to smuggle the APGA governorship candidate out of the scene of the bloody attack. The convoy of Odoh was ambushed by armed men on Thursday night near Rest House, Okpoto in Ishielu LGA of the State, killing his driver, Boniface Ogbonna, who is a Civil Defense officer. Kudu, who died on Monday morning, was among those fatally injured during the attack. Meanwhile, the Odohzhia Ebonyi Campaign council, the APGA campaign platform, has mourned the death of Kudu. Charles Otu, Director, Media and Publicity of APGA in a statement on Monday, said the late Police Inspector died from injuries he sustained during the gun duel with assassins who attacked the convoy of its gubernatorial candidate. Otu said the body of Kudu would be laid to rest on Monday, according to Muslim rites in his home state. The statement reads: The Odohzhia Ebonyi Campaign Council regrets to officially announce the passing away of Inspector Ibrahim Kudu, a Police Inspector who was shot on the chest during the attack on the APGA governorship candidate in Ebonyi, Professor Benard Odoh last week’s Thursday night. “He died earlier today at the Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki from injuries he sustained during the gun duel with assassins who attacked the convoy of our gubernatorial candidate while on his way back from a campaign rally in Ezeagu, Ishielu Local Government Area of the State. “Kudu, a native of Niger State and a devout Muslim was posted to Professor Odoh from the Special Protection Unit, SPU, Base 4 Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “His body will be laid to rest today according to Muslim rites in his home State.” Also, the APGA Campaign Council has accused the Ebubeagu Security, of killing on Elom Oscar, a member of the party from Ndiagu orie, UmuOgudu Akpu Ngbo community, Ohaukwu LGA of the State. According to Otu, the victim was shot by armed Ebubeagu operatives who rode on a branded APC Sienna vehicle. “Meantime, operatives of Ebubeagu Security Network in Ohaukwu LGA has shot and killed one Elom Oscar Chinonso, a native of Ndiagu Orie, UmuOgudu Akpu Ngbo community in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the State. The young business man was reportedly killed in his shop. “A member and an ardent supporter of APGA from the area who spoke about the ugly incident said the victim was shot by armed Ebubeagu operatives who rode on a branded APC Sienna vehicle. “Again, our hearts are severely grieved for the Ebonyi State APC government under the leadership of Engr. David Umahi has continued on its mute mode while watching rampaging Ebubeagu militia killing innocent citizens of our dear state all for power grabbing. “While calling on the Police authorities to now expedite action in arresting those who attacked our governorship candidate’s convoy to speedy justice, we also reiterate our persistent calls on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to bring his words to effect that all deadly quasi security outfit like Ebubeagu will not feature or partake in the activities leading to and during and after the February 25 and March 11 general elections in Nigeria. “For us, this is one attack, too many. May the souls of the faithfully-departed rest in the bosom of the Lord”, the statement added. Speaking, the State Security Consultant, Stanley Okoro-Emegha, frowned at what he described an ugly trend whereby every killing or violent incident that occurred in any part of the state is linked to Ebubeagu, and warned people to desist henceforth, as the agency would no longer hesitate to test the allegations in the courts of competent jurisdictions. In another development, the Campaign Council of the People’s Democratic Party in Ebonyi State has alleged an attempted assassination of its governorship candidate, Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, allegedly by Ebubeagu Security operatives. The Director, Media and Publicity of the Council, Abia Onyike, made the allegation in a statement signed and issued by him on Monday. The statement said Odii was heading to a meeting in the home of Ene Odii, a chieftain of the party in Uburu, Ohaozara LGA, when the gunmen opened fire at the meeting. The statement reads: “The governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party in Ebonyi State, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, yesterday escaped death by the whiskers as a conspiracy targeted against him by the APC government of Governor David Umahi was foiled, even as other PDP faithful came under the staccato of machine guns from Umahi’s killer squad. “Dr. Odii was heading to a meeting in the home of Hon. Ene Odii when the gunmen opened fire at the meeting. “Senator Mike Ama Nnachi, representing Ebonyi South Senatorial District was not that lucky as he was a victim of the attack, even though he escaped unhurt. “Trouble started in the afternoon of Sunday, 5th February, 2023 in the private residence of a PDP stalwart, Chief Ene Odi who hosted a meeting in his large compound. “Senator Ama Nnachi, a direct opponent of Governor David Umahi in the Senatorial contest was adopted by the Ebonyi South caucus of the party, just as Uburu women assembly also donated a Bible to him and cursed any other fellow contesting the election with him. “Governor Umahi and his foot soldiers became jittery. Umahi would have none of such. Suddenly, EbubeAgu fighters were unleashed on the meeting ground. People were shot sporadically and vehicles were shattered as the invaders made frantic efforts to enter the compound and finish off the PDP faithful. “The official security of the Senator repelled the bandits and after more than one hour of shooting, the EbubeAgu retreated following a security beef up. “Just as the fight ensued, the advance party of Dr. Odii sent a message across to their master, who was advised to instantly retreat. “The governorship candidate retreated and saved what could have become a bloodbath in Ebonyi State. “We hereby once again condemn the cowardly acts of Governor Umahi and his state-sponsored warlords. “Governor Umahi’s evil plan to annihilate opposition forces in Ebonyi State by stopping them from engaging in campaigns is a political anathema and a desecration of democratic ideals. “Let Umahi understand that nobody has a monopoly of violence and his continued trampling upon the rights of Ebonyians is mischievous and wicked.” Reacting, the Ebubeagu Commander, Ebonyi State, Friday Nnanna-Ujor, dissociated Ebubeagu from the attack, saying it must have been perpetrated by suspected ESN/IPOB operatives. He explained that the Simeon Ekpa led faction of ESN/IPOB had hitherto banned political gatherings within the South East, and had been invading political gatherings to attack people, wondering why the opposition parties are usually quick to accuse Ebubeagu of any incident of attack in the state.