Nigerian labour leaders on Monday explained the rationale behind the call for the adoption of a consensus arrangement in picking its next president. The election which will bring together delegates from NLC 49 affiliates, covering all the sectors of the Nigerian economy and foreign guests, to vote in the 13th Quadrennial National Delegates Conference, is slated for February 7 and 8, 2023. The General Secretary of the National Union of Electricity Employees, Joe Ajaero, is favoured to succeed Ayuba Wabba as NLC President, barring any last-minute change.  A Deputy NLC National President, Ajaero, is the only candidate for the position of president going into today and tomorrow’s delegates conference of the Congress. The conference is expected to be capped with the election of national officers that will pilot the affairs of Nigerian workers in the next four years. According to the President of the Amalgamated Union of Public Corporation, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE), Benjamin Anthony, the need to avoid a repeat of what happened at the March 2015 during the National Delegates Conference in Abuja, necessitated the agreement on a consensus arrangement. Eight years ago, NUEE leader had refused to step down for Wabba in the wake of the disputed outcome of the Congress. That disagreement led to the temporary factionalisation of the NLC with the Ajaero-led faction birthing the United Labour Congress with over 25 affiliates including some aggrieved affiliates of Trade Union Congress on December 18, 2016 Among the prominent members of the then ULC were the two strong oil unions, the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), and Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN). Others include NUEE, Nigeria Union of Mine Workers, National Union of Banks, Insurance and Financial Employees, Nigeria Union of Rail Workers, National Union of Lottery Agents, & Employees, Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers. Throughout the period wrangling among the two factions, the ULC appeared to wield more influence as it was in control of the goings on in the petroleum industry, power sector, financial, aviation, manufacturing and telecommunication sectors among others. To achieve the consensus option, Labour leaders have been at the negotiation table for up to six months from which a consensus list has been unanimously adopted. “We want to build a very strong labour centre and the issue of trying to go around the election. You know what happened in 2015 and we are trying to avoid that. “All of us have agreed that we must not allow that to happen again. It was a big lesson and that is why we have agreed now. It took us six months to discuss and reach this consensus list.” Those nominated for the position of Deputy National President are Comrades Prince Adeyanju Adewale, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria; Audu Amba, Nigeria Union of Teachers and Kabiru Sani, Medical and Health Worker’s Union of Nigeria. President of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, Comrade Ambali Olatunji, was nominated for National Treasurer. Others nominated for the position of Vice President are: Comrade Benjamin Anthony, Amalgamated Union of Public Corporation, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees; Comrade Stephen Okoro, National Union of Civil Engineering, Construction, Furniture and Wood Workers; Comrade Michael Nnachi, National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives and Comrade Oluwole Sunday, Nigeria Civil Service Union. Also, Comrade Marwan Adamu of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria has been nominated for the position of Financial Secretary.