BY DAVID NWANKWO, ABAKALIKI Catholic Bishop of Abakaliki Diocese, Most Rev. Peter Chukwu has condemned the rise in politically motivated violence and killings in different parts of the state. The Bishop made his feelings known in a homily at St. Theresa Cathedral, Abakaliki, on Sunday. He expressed worry over the number of lives that had been lost in different parts of the state in recent times, as a result politically motivated violence and accused desperate politicians of masterminding it in their bid to intimidate and suppress the people in order to gain political power by force. He urged the people to reject such politicians at the polls or be ready to face the consequences. Bishop Chukwu urged the people to pray for peaceful elections in the state and the country and averred that the general election would not be won  by money or through violence. He said: “Let us pray for a peaceful elections. There is no peaceful campaign in Ebonyi State, there is much violence in Ebonyi. There is violence in Ebonyi; people were killed in Edda, Afikpo South local government area,  people were killed in Isu, Onicha local government area. A governorship candidate went to Izzi local government area for campaign and his jeep windscreen was shattered with bullets. “In Okpoto, Ishielu local government area of the state, the driver of the governorship candidate was killed while returning from campaign when he was attacked. Many who were in his convoy were wounded. Bullet pierced the car door of the candidate but the bullet couldn’t pass the opposite side, otherwise, he would have been killed. The governorship candidate is in shock now, and it is one group that is doing all these things, people who want power by all means. “So, if people of the state want someone that will be harassing them with guns, it is left for you. If you condemn what is happening, they will come after you in the night and eliminate you. If it is this type of government that you want, go and institute it, both in Ebonyi and Nigeria, it is left for you people. Go and institute such government, if you like it, all of us will be in danger. “This year’s elections will not be won by money, anyone sharing money to get votes will be disappointed. A violent person; killing people and destroying properties will be disappointed. A criminal person, an ocultic person will be disappointed because power belongs to God.  You will see what will happen in Nigeria, you will see what will happen in Ebonyi State.”