The Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has disclosed that the state government has taken delivery of drones to assist the security agencies in the state to track criminals. The governor made the disclosure when received the new Commissioner of Police in the state, Frank Mba and the new Brigade Commander of the 35 Artillery Brigade, Alamala, Abeokuta, Brigadier-General Mohammed Aminu, in his office on Thursday. Abiodun noted that Ogun in conjunction with Oyo State, had established different security points along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, to curb kidnapping and.and other criminal activities. He also disclosed that the police commands of the two neighbouring states, have been largely responsible for the constant combing of the forest being used by criminals on the axis. “There have been instances where our will had been tested, you know that we have the highest number of highways on the country and because we are the Gateway State and particularly the Lagos-Ibadan expressway where we’ve had the issues of kidnap situations here and there and I am happy to say that with the collaboration between CP Bankole and the Oyo State Police commissioner and of cause the army, we’ve managed to ensure that has subsided. “We have since ordered for some drones that have now arrived, we are now about to launch those drones and the drones we have purchased particularly for that corridor and other sensitive corridors so that it can help you in ensuring that we are proactive and we see this criminals before they begin to perpetuate their criminal tendencies,” he said. Abiodun while thanking the immediate past security heads in the state for working together with other security agencies to ensure the security of lives and property, assured that his administration would extend to the new Brigade Commander and Commissioner of Police the same level of support given to their predecessors. Governor Abiodun who also disclosed that his administration has lowered the political temperature in the state as to what was experienced in 2019, added that the feat was acheived through the collaboration between the law enforcement agencies, politicians, traditional rulers, civil societies and the citizens of the state. In their remarks, the former Commissioner of Police in the state, Lanre Bankole and his counterpart from the 35 Artillery Brigade, Alamala, thanked the governor for the enabling environment provided for them to operate, noting that the achievement was a conscious approach of the government at tackling all forms of insecurity. In his remarks, the new Commissioner of Police, Frank Mba, who acknowledged the sterling leadership of the governor, appreciated him for creating the enabling environment for security agencies to strive in the state. Mba who also noted that he is a witness to the huge support the governor has given to security agencies in the state in the last three and half years, noted that he was in the state to fight crimes and defend the rights of the people of the state. “I am here to fight crimes and fighting crimes I will do, we will do everything to support your vision of zero tolerance for insecurity and we will collaborate with other security agencies. The command under my watch in conjunction with other security agencies will provide a safe environment during the general elections, we will also ensure political neutrality, the people of the state will be top in our priorities, we will defend human rights,” he said. The new Brigade Commander of the 35 Artillery,, Brigadier General Mohammed Aminu in his remarks, commended the Governor Abiodun for his support to the security agencies in the state, noting that he would do his best to ensure that the tempo is sustained.