BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 26-year-old labourer, Ranbin Kumshut, has been remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre for allegedly defiling and raping a teenage girl. Kumshut, an indigene of Plateau State residing in Ila-Orangun town of Osun State, was dragged before a Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo for raping the 14-year-old minor. The defendant, who was arrested by the police, told The Point in an interview that he met the girl walking along a bushy road close to the Police Mobile Force Training College in Ila-Orangun and forced her down inside a bush close to the road and raped her. Police prosecutor, John Idoko, informed the court that the act was committed on January 12, 2023 at about 9:30pm at Idi-Odan Area of the town. He said Kumshut did not only have forceful carnal knowledge of the minor but also assaulted her indecently. The charge reads, “That you Ranbin Kumshut on the 12th day of January, 2023 at about 9:30pm at Idi-Odan area, Ila-Orangun, Osun State triable in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did unlawfully rape one Omo Korope (not real name), aged 14 years, and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 2(1)(a) and punishable under section 2(2) of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition), Law of Osun State, 2021. “That you (Kumshut) on the same time and date, did unlawfully take undue advantage of one Omo Korope, aged 14 years, and sexually exploited her and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 32 of the Child’s Rights Law of Osun State, 2007. “That you did unlawfully and indecently assault one Omo Korope, aged 14 years and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 360 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol II, Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002.” The Chief Magistrate, Olusegun Ayilara asked the court clerk not to take the plea of the accused person as the Magistrate’s Court lacks the power to grant the defendant bail. He said the Child’s Right Law does not permit the court. Consequently, Ayilara ordered that Kumshut be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre and directed the prosecution to furnish the Department of Public Prosecution with the case file for legal advice. The matter was adjourned till February 14, 2023 for mention.