BY BRIGHT JACOB Anti-corruption agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, has arrested a suspected vote buyer, Cletus Tyokyaa, a lecturer with the Sarwuan Tarka University, Markurdi, Benue State. Tyokyaa was arrested at the RCM Polling Unit in Daudu, Guma Local Government Area of the state with the sum of N306,700 in his possession. The sum, which was in various denominations was stashed in his car. According to a statement released by the EFCC, “Luck ran out on the suspect when he drove to the voting centre which was different from his polling unit and tried to run upon sighting operatives of the Commission. “When asked about his mission at the centre, Tyokyaa could not provide a coherent explanation, leading to his arrest, and the search of his car revealed the money in various denominations. “He was released after volunteering a statement to the Commission,” the statement read. Continuing, the statement also said that another suspected vote buyer was arrested with the sum of N194,000 at Gidan Zakka polling Unit, Goron Dutse area of Kano Municipal Local Government, Kano State. The Commission also arrested a party agent buying votes through bank transfers in Abaji in the Federal Capital Territory, while two persons, Stanley Nsemo and Eno Amponsah, were nabbed in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, with the sum of $450, equivalent to about N156,800. Another woman with 18 voter cards was also intercepted by eagle-eyed operatives of the Commission at Badarwa area of Kaduna, Kaduna State. According to the EFCC statement, “The woman, one Maryam Mamman Alhaji, who is a member of the support group of one of the leading political parties, also had in her possession, a 17-page list containing names of eligible voters, their bank details and phone numbers as accredited under Badarwa/Malaii Ward 01 and 08, Kaduna North Local Government Area of Kaduna State. “She was nabbed after under-cover operatives pretended they had voter cards and were desperate to sell them,” the statement concluded.