The Police Service Commission has replaced Naja’atu Muhammad with a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Bawa Lawal, to coordinate the monitoring of police officers’ conduct in the North-West region during the presidential election. This followed an outcry on Monday by the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council, which accused Naja’atu of partnership. The PSC on Sunday announced the appointment of Naja’atu, who is former Director of the Civil Society Directorate of the APC PCC, as one of the coordinators to supervise the conduct of police officers during the forthcoming elections. The Kano-born politician had earlier criticised the ruling APC and its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, after she resigned from the party to support the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar. Following her appointment, the APC in a statement by the chief spokesperson for the Tinubu/Shettima PCC, Festus Keyamo, kicked against it. In response to the objection, the PSC said in a statement that it had dropped Naja’atu. The PSC statement reads in part, “The attention of the PSC was drawn to a press statement by the APC PCC on the appointment of Naja’atu representing women interest and the North-West in the commission as one of the coordinators for the monitoring of police conduct in the February 25 presidential election which the council accused of partisanship. “The statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs and chief spokesperson, Tinubu/Shettima PCC, Festus Keyamo, SAN, rejected the appointment of commissioner Naja’atu as coordinator for the exercise. “The commission wishes to state with all sense of responsibility that its commissioners representing different geopolitical zones have always supervised assignments of the commission in the geopolitical zones they represent. It was the same with the present national assignment. “The commission has, however, decided to mandate AIG Bawa Lawal (retd.), who is from the same geopolitical zone with commissioner Naja’atu, to take over the coordination of the monitoring of police conduct in the zone.”