The Speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, on Wednesday narrated how he escaped an assassination attempt on his life by persons suspected to be political thugs. Owoeye admitted during a press conference that his escape was made possible by the gallantry of the men of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the police officers attached to his office. He disclosed that the personnel repelled the assailants who arrived at his premises at 2 am and started shooting sporadically at his building. He further claimed that the attack was also targeted at the member representing the Ilesa West constituency, Wale Adedoyin and Folarin Fafowora, the immediate past chairman of Ilesa West Central Local Council Development Authority. Narrating his ordeal, he said “In the early hours of today, February 22, an assassination attempt was made on my life, but for divine providence, the story would have been different. I want to salute the security [team] who stood their ground to prevent my assailants from carrying out their aim.” He said further: “Recall that last week, I released a press [statement] about the killing of Ebenezer Alaro, a member of our party whose only crime was to drive a truck used to convey the public address system we used for our rally from Monday through Thursday. [He] was trailed home after the Thursday rally and killed in front of his parents’ house. “I was also informed this morning that an electrification project on which I have expended over 15 million naira in Oke Aga has been destroyed and riddled with bullets. I sympathize with the community that will be thrown into darkness because of this senseless politics.” He noted that recent happenings in Osun are becoming worrisome and need proper attention from every well-meaning citizen. Said he: “The return of political thuggery after about 12 years of the All Progressives Congress, APC, administration in the states now gives residents and citizens sleepless nights. “It will not be wrong to say that the change of baton in the government of the state has actually encouraged the return of that dark era when citizens cannot sleep with their two eyes closed. “I, therefore, called on the police to investigate the assassination attempt on my life, the gruesome murder of Alaro and others with a view to ensuring that those involved are brought to Justice.” Failure to quickly fish out the perpetrators of the heinous crime, according to him “could aggravate an already tense situation that will lead to a breakdown of law and order in the states before and during the forthcoming election.”