As Ogun State clocks 47 years since its creation, the Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has saluted the sacrifices made by the founding fathers to ensure a solid foundation was laid for the state, promising that his administration would take Ogun to greater height. The governor in his 47th anniversary message, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Friday, felicitated the Ogun people for the giant strides the state has achieved among its peers, declaring the state has indeed lived up to its cognomen, the Gateway State. He noted that since the pioneer military administration that oversaw the transition of the state from the old Western Region, Ogun had witnessed a steady but progressive development since creation. Abiodun said that apart from producing illustrious sons and daughters who had shaped the nation and contributed positively to the development of Nigeria, Ogun has been the industrial capital of the country. He added that the state has every right to celebrate its 47 years of existence because of its foremost position in the comity of states in Nigeria, pointing out that Ogun would continue to champion excellence, hard work, dignity, industry and resilience, the indigenes are reputed for. Abiodun declared that his administration would not depart on the path of greatness as laid by the founding fathers and carry on the torch of excellence passed down by them. While expressing his delight about the 47th anniversary, the governor said that his administration shared the pains being currently experienced by the people in the state as a result of the redesigned naira notes swap and fuel scarcity. According to him, the plight being endured by the people is a great sacrifice that can be offered by them for better Nigeria, disclosing that all efforts were being made to ease the situation. He said that the issues of scarcity of fuel and new naira notes had been taken up with relevant authority to make life easier and more meaningful for the people. Abiodun, however, announced the suspension of the ongoing political campaign until further notice, to identify with the plight of the Ogun people, emphasizing that moves have been made to ease up the sufferings of the people. The governor, who noted that as an administration that is sensitive to the plight of the people, election campaigns in the state would cease until normalcy is returned to the economic activities of the people, calling on the people to persevere as the current situation would ease up very soon. Abiodun reiterated his administration’s commitment to making life more meaningful to the people, calling on them to obtain their Permanent Voters’ Cards and vote for all the All Progressives Congress candidates at the poll.