DAVID NWANKWO, ABAKALIKI The Presidential candidate of the Labour Party for the 2023 general election, Peter Obi has urged Nigerians to hold him responsible if his administration fails as the president of the country. Obi gave the assurance while addressing a mammoth crowd of his supporters at PA Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki, Friday, during his presidential rally. Obi also promised to pay priority attention on the youths and women in order to cushion the present sufferings in the country, which according to him, is orchestrated by bad leadership. He also urged Nigerians not to vote based on religion, tribe and turn, but focus on competence, credibility and performance in various sphere of influence in the presidential election. Obi said: “This year’s election is not going to be about religion. Let’s not allow them to divide us again. It is nobody’s turn, but your turn to take back your country. “Am contesting this election as an Igbo man who is the most qualified. People want to be President but they have not told you who they are . I, will change this country; hold me responsible. This is a great country and there’s no reason for us to be suffering. We don’t want those who are stealing our money. “Anybody that gives you money, take it. It’s your money. Take the money and reject them. I was the Governor of Anambra State and I never owed anybody. I left N75 billion naira in the coffers of government before leaving office. “We want you to vote for human being. We want to take care of mama, papa and pikin. Hold me responsible, let’s build a new Nigeria. This my government will be for the youth and women….Mama papa, pikin.” He noted that some money bag politicians in the country had been using religion and tribe especially during elections to divide the country. Obi said “this year’s election should not be based on tribe, no tribal bread is cheaper. Every tribe is suffering, there is insurgency in the North, there is insecurity in the South. Katsina is not secured neither Maiduguri is secured . We don’t want that any longer, this is what they use to divide us. “This year’s election will not be based on religion. Let nobody deceive you on religion because that is what is used to deceive us. “Let no one divide us again by religion, we don’t want that division any more and let no one tell you it is my turn, it is nobody’s turn. It is your turn to take back your country. “This year’s election must be based on character that we can trust. I am not contesting this election as an Igbo man or an Easterner. I am contesting this election as a Nigerian who is the most the qualified.”