BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A traditional ruler in Osun State, Alowa of Ilowa-Ijesa in Obokun Local Government Area of the state, Oba Bukola Ali, has been dragged to an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court for allegedly demolishing a building belonging to a resident of the state. The monarch was docked by the state police command and accused of entering parcels of land said to belong to one Alabi Wahab Adeyinka and situated in Osogbo. The police further alleged that the 65-year-old traditional ruler committed the offences on May 18, 2022 at Oke-Fia area of Osogbo, adding that he caused breach of public peace on the land in dispute. According to the police prosecutor, Inspector Elisha Olusegun, Oba Ali and some others said to be at large, stormed the land and demolished a building on it. The demolished building was said to be worth N150 million. Details of the charges slammed against Ali read, “That you Oba Bukola Ali and others now at large on the 18th day of May, 2022 at Oke-Fia, Osogbo, Osun State in the Osogbo Magisterial District did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit: forcible entry and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 516 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol II Laws of Osun, 2002. “That you and others now at large at the same time and place, did in a manner likely to cause breach of the peace, entered on parcels of land at Oke-Fia, Osogbo, Osun State, which is in actual and peaceful possession of Alabi Wahab Adeyinka and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 517 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol II Laws of Osun, 2002. “That you and others at large, on the same date and in the aforementioned district, did conspire among yourselves to commit misdemeanour offence to wit: malicious damage and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 517 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol II Laws of Osun, 2002. “That you Oba Bukola Ali and others now at large on the same date and time, did wilfully and unlawfully demolish a building valued one hundred and fifty million naira (N150, 000,000,00) belonging to one Alabi Wahab Adeyinka and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section -451 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol II Laws of Osun, 2002.” However, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the allegations. His lead counsel, T. Adegboyega, urged the court to grant the monarch bail on self-recognizance, adding that the monarch is the owner of the land and that there were documents to prove it. Also, the monarch, in an affidavit he deposed into, informed the court that he bought the land from the Office of the Administrative-General and Public Trustees, Osun State and that a Deed of Conveyance document was given to him by the Office on August 23, 1971 after paying the sum of N10 million. Magistrate Olusola Aluko granted the traditional ruler bail on self-recognizance and adjourned the matter for hearing.