BY MAYOWA SAMUEL A division of the African Democratic Congress has distanced itself from the alleged support or endorsement of other political parties and their 2023 candidates. The ADC referred to the alleged endorsements as fraudulent, void, and of no effect because they were being carried by a faction of the party not recognized by law, as they did so for financial gains. Chairman of the party’s board of trustees, Mrs. Patricia Akwashiki, disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Monday. The anti-party behavior was attributed to a faction of the party that was headed by the party’s recently departed National Chairman, Ralph Nwosu. According to the party, Nwosu’s faction has allegedly divided itself into three groups which are now illegally engaged in endorsing parties like the All Progressives Congress, People’s Democratic Party and the Labour Party for 2023 general elections all in a bid to make quick money. The party warned those involved in the act to desist or face the full wrath of the law, recalling that its presidential candidate for the 2023 polls, Dumebi Kachikwu, had “long warned about criminals in ADC who sell the party to the bigger parties. “They have divided themselves into three groups and collected money from APC, PDP and Labour. One party, three endorsements within the space of four days, shameful.” The party under the interim leadership of Patricia Akwashiki, said that those who did the endorsements were “impostors” and “impersonators” who were no longer members of the party and therefore had nothing to do with the authentic ADC recognized by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The statement reads, “We are appalled that renegades who are no longer known to the ADC can constitute themselves into a criminal gang to perpetuate illegalities all in the name of making quick money. “This condemnable action will not stop our party or its presidential candidate from running the race to the very end. “We are determined to ensure that the bright chances of all ADC candidates in the forthcoming general elections are not sold or mortgaged as was the practice in the past. “The arm of the law will soon catch up with all those responsible for these criminal and shameful activities.”