Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has said that sit-at-home order is an offence to the Igbo and South East, and that the proponents do not mean well for the people. He said those dishing out such directives when the whole citizens of the country are going into a general election to choose their leaders cannot be said to have any love for the Igbo people who they intend to disenfranchise. The Governor spoke on Sunday during a Thanksgiving Mass held at St. Michael’s Catholic Church Umueze 1 in the Okigwe Catholic Diocese, in honour of Chief Tony Chukwu. Governor Uzodimma therefore enjoined the congregation in particular and Imo people in general, to come out en masse on Saturday, February 25, 2023 and March 11, 2023 and vote for the candidates of their choice as doing so will help add value to their lives. He reiterated that as long as he remains the Governor of Imo State he will continue to do the right thing and promised not to disappoint the trust reposed on him by Imo people. The Governor used the opportunity to accede to the request of the Church to help them in the building of Model Nursery and Primary School project by donating the sum of N20 million. He said that insecurity and many other problems in the society are direct consequences of illiteracy, saying that, “to minimize it Education needs to be encouraged.” Earlier in His homily, the Catholic Bishop of Diocese of Okigwe, His Grace Most Rev. Solomon Amatu had charged the congregation to love one another by following the footsteps of our Saviour Jesus Christ. The Bishop also vehemently condemned the sit- at- home order and enjoined the faithful and Imo people in general, to come out and vote for the candidate of their choice on the days of the election, saying that “it is your civic responsibility of electing the person that will bring change to the society.” The Bishop also urged the people to be peaceful. In his brief remarks, the Parish Priest of St. Michaels Catholic Church Umueze 1, Rev. Fr. Charles Osunwa thanked Governor Uzodimma for making out time to worship with them despite his commitment and tight schedule. He commended the Governor for the good work he is doing in Imo State, singling out the quality and massive road construction of the Governor in Imo State and prayed God to bless him and see him through in his endeavours. Those that attended the Mass were the Speaker Imo State House of Assembly, Emeka Nduka, the Chief Whip Federal House of Representatives, Nkeiruka Onyejiocha, Chike Okafor, the Secretary to State Government, Cosmas Iwu, the Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie, members of the Imo State Expanded Executive Council. Others included the Chairman Ben Uwajimogu College of Education Governing Council Ihitte Uboma, HRH Eze (Dr.) Oliver Ohanwe, the Vice Chancellor of Imo State University, Prof Chukwumeze, Rev. Fathers and Rev. Sisters from within and outside the Diocese, among others.